>> AM SITTING HERE IN THE U.S.
CAPITAL TALKING TO OUR ELECTED
PROFESSIONALS IS PROOF HE MADE
THE RIGHT DECISION 40 YEARS AGO
TO LEAVE THE SOVIET UNION,
COMING TO THE UNITED STATES OF
AMERICA AND SEARCH FOR A BETTER
LIFE FOR OUR FAMILY. DO NOT
WORRY, I'LL BE FINE FOR TELLING
THE TRUTH.
>>
WAS HIS ROLE IN HELPING
PRESIDENT TRUMP LOOK INTO
POLITICAL AND PERSONAL BENEFITS
BY UKRAINE INTO THE BIDEN
FAMILY. WILL BE BRINGING YOU
THIS HEARING LIVE IN AN
INTERRUPTED ALL DAY, IT'S
ANOTHER BIG DAY OF HEARINGS ON
CAPITOL HILL TODAY AFTER WE HEAR
FROM AMBASSADOR SONDLAND, THIS
AFTERNOON WE HEAR FROM LAURA
COOPER AND ALSO  DAVID HALE AND
THE MORE TESTIMONY . WE EXPECTED
TO START AT 9 A.M. TOMORROW
MORNING WE BRING THAT TO YOU
LIVE
AND UNINTERRUPTED. WILL ALSO BE
TALKING TO OUR REPORTERS
TOMORROW MORNING WITH A WRAP UP
OF WHAT HAPPENS TODAY. YOU CAN
STAY
TUNED TO WASHINGTONPOST.COM OR
ON YOUTUBE FOR ALL OF THIS. I
HAVE TO REMIND YOU DEMOCRATIC
BAIT TONIGHT OUR COVERAGE IS
8:00 EASTERN NOTHING HAPPENS IN
A BUBBLE. IMPEACHMENT IS
SOMETHING WE WONDER IF IT WILL
BE TALKED ABOUT AS THE
CANDIDATES TAKE THE STAGE. LET
US CHECK IN WITH HIS HEARING IS
GET INTO RANKING
MEMBER NUNES
>> GOOD
MORNING EVERYONE IS A PART OF
THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
IMPEACHMENT INQUIRY. WITHOUT
OBJECTION THE CHAIR IS
AUTHORIZED TO DECLARE A RECESS
AT ANY TIME. THERE IS A QUORUM
PRESENT. WE WILL PROCEED TODAY
IN THE SAME FASHION OF THE OTHER
HEARINGS, WILL
MAKE A STATEMENT AND THEN
RANKING MEMBER NUNES WILL HAVE
THE OPPORTUNITY TO MAKE A
STATEMENT.  HE WILL THEN TURN TO
OUR LIKENESS WITNESS. AND THEN
TO
COMMITTEE MEMBERS. IT IS THE
INTENTION OF THE COMMITTEE TO
PROCEED WITHOUT DISRUPTIONS. AS
CHAIRMAN I WILL MAKE ALL
NECESSARY AND APPROPRIATE STEPS
TO MAINTAIN ORDER AND MAKE SURE
THE COMMITTEE IS RUN IN
ACCORDANCE WITH HOUSE RULES AND
HOUSE RESOLUTION 660. WITH THAT
AND I RECOGNIZE MYSELF TO GIVE
AN OPENING STATEMENT IN THE
IMPEACHMENT INQUIRY INTO DONALD
J TRUMP THE 45th PRESIDENT OF
THE UNITED STATES. THIS MORNING
WILL HEAR FROM GORDON SONDLAND
THE AMERICAN AMBASSADOR TO THE
EUROPEAN UNION. WE ARE HERE
TODAY AS PART OF THE HOUSE OF
REPRESENTATIVES IMPEACHMENT
INQUIRY BECAUSE PRESIDENT DONALD
TRUMP SOUGHT
TO CONDITION MILITARY AID TO THE
UKRAINE AND AN OVAL OFFICE
MEETING WITH THE NEW UKRAINIAN
PRESIDENT VLADIMIR ZELENSKY
WITH EXCHANGE FOR POLITICAL
MOTIVATED INVESTIGATIONS THAT
TRUMP BELIEVED WOULD HELP HIS
CAMPAIGN. THE FIRST
INVESTIGATION WAS OF A
DISCREDITED CONSPIRACY THEORY
THAT UKRAINE,
NOT RUSSIA, WAS RESPONSIBLE FOR
INTERFERING IN THE 2016
ELECTION. SECOND INVESTIGATION
TRUMP DEMANDED WAS INTO A
POLITICAL RIVAL THAT HE
APPARENTLY FEARED MOST, JOE
BIDEN. TRUMP SOUGHT TO
WEAKEN BIDEN AND THAT HIS OWN
ELECTION CAMPAIGN IN 2016 HAS
BEEN HELPED BY RUSSIAN HACKING
AND
DUMPING OPERATION AND THE
CAMPAIGN DIRECTED BY VLADIMIR
PUTIN TO HELP. TRUMP'S SCHEME
UNDERMINED MILITARY SUPPORT FOR
AN ALLY AND ANTICORRUPTION
EFFORTS
IN UKRAINE. HE PUT HIS PERSONAL
LITTLE INTEREST ABOVE THOSE OF
THE UNITED STATES. AS AMBASSADOR
SONDLAND WOULD TELL DAVID HOLMES
IMMEDIATELY AFTER SPEAKING TO
THE PRESIDENT , TRUMP SHOULD NOT
GIVE AN EXPLETIVE ABOUT UKRAINE.
HE CARES ABOUT BIG STUFF THAT
BENEFITS HIM, LIKE THE BIDEN
INVESTIGATIONS THE RUDY GIULIANI
WAS PUSHING. INVESTOR SONDLAND
AMBASSADOR SONDLAND  WAS
A SKILLED BUT FOUND HIMSELF
INCREASINGLY EMBROILED IN AN
EFFORT TO IMPRESS THE YOU THE
NEW UKRAINIAN
PRESIDENT THAT DEVIATED SHARPLY
FROM THE NORM IN TERMS OF POLICY
AND PROCESS. IN FEBRUARY
AMBASSADOR SONDLAND TRAVEL TO
UKRAINE  ON HIS FIRST OFFICIAL
TRIP TO
THAT COUNTRY. WHILE IN YOU HAVE
HE MET WITH MARIA
YU DARVISH YOVANOVITCH AND FOUND
HER TO BE AN EXCELLENT DIPLOMAT
WITH THE UKRAINIAN INTERNAL
DYNAMICS. ON APRIL 21st,
ZELENSKY  WAS ELECTED PRESIDENT
AND SPOKE TO PRESIDENT TRUMP,
WHO
CONGRATULATED HIM AND SAID HE
WOULD LOOK INTO ATTENDING
ZELENSKY'S INAUGURATION  BUT
PLEDGED TO SEND SOMEONE A VERY,
VERY HIGH LEVEL. BETWEEN THE
TIME OF THAT CALL ON THE
INAUGURAL ON MAY 20th, TRUMP'S
ATTITUDE TOWARDS UKRAINE
HARDENED. ON MAY 13th THE
PRESIDENT ORDERED VICE PRESIDENT
PENCE NOT TO ATTEND LINSKY'S
INAUGURATION  OPTING INSTEAD TO
DISPATCH THE SO DUBBED THREE
AMIGOS. RICK PERRY, AMBASSADOR
SONDLAND,  AND AMBASSADOR KURT
VOLKER THE SPECIAL
REPRESENTATIVE FOR UKRAINE
NEGOTIATIONS. AFTER TURNING FROM
THE
NET INAUGURATION PRESIDENT TRUMP
BRIEFED THEM ON THE FIRST
INTERACTIONS WITH THE NEW
UKRAINIAN ADMINISTRATION. THEY
URGE THE PRESIDENT TO MEET WITH
ZELENSKY  BUT THE PRESIDENT'S
REACTION WAS DECIDEDLY HOSTILE.
PRESIDENT'S ORDER WAS CLEAR,
HOWEVER. TALK WITH RUDY. DURING
THIS AND PETER DURING
THIS MEETING AMBASSADOR SONDLAND
BECAME AWARE OF WHAT THE
PRESIDENT AND RUDY GIULIANI WERE
INTERESTED IN. STARTING AT THE
MAY
23rd MEETING AND ENDING UP AT
THE END OF THE LINE FOR THE
TRANSCRIPT OF THE CALL CAME OUT.
IT WAS A CONTINUUM HE WOULD
EXPLAIN THE BECAME MORE
INSIDIOUS
OVER TIME. THE THREE AMIGOS WERE
DISAPPOINTED WITH TRUMP'S
DIRECTIVE TO ENGAGE GIULIANI,
BUT VOWED TO
PRESS AHEAD. AMBASSADOR SONDLAND
TESTIFIED WE COULD ABANDON THE
GOAL OF THE WHITE HOUSE MEETING
FOR PRESIDENT ZELENSKY  WHAT THE
GROUP DEEMED CRUCIAL FOR U.S.
UKRAINIAN RELATIONS OR, WE COULD
DO AS PRESIDENT TRUMP DIRECTED
AND TALK TO MR. GIULIANI TO
ADDRESS THE PRESIDENT'S
CONCERNS. WE CHOSE THE
LATTER PATH. IN THE COMING
WEEKS, AMBASSADOR SOMNOLENT GOT
MORE INVOLVED, AND STARTING WITH
THE JUNE 4th U.S. MISSION TO THE
INDEPENDENT DAY EVENT IN
BRUSSELS ONE MONTH EARLY.
SECRETARY PERRY AND THE STATE
DEPARTMENT COUNSELOR AND
SONDLAND  MET WITH PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY WHO WAS INVITED
PERSONALLY ON THE MARGINS OF THE
EVENT. ON JUNE 10th, 2019 THEY
ORGANIZE THE CALL WITH
SONDLAND ,  THEN NATIONAL
SECURITY ADVISOR JOHN BOLTON,
VOLKER AND OTHERS.  THE REVIEWED
THIS
TRAGEDY STRATEGY.
THEY DISCUSSED TRUMP'S DESIRE
FOR RUDY GIULIANI TO BE SOMEHOW
INVOLVED. AT THE END OF THE CALL
WE ALL FELT VERY COMFORTABLE
WITH THE STRATEGY MOVING
FORWARD. TWO WEEKS LATER, ON
JUNE 27th, AMBASSADOR SONDLAND
CALLED TAYLOR TO SAY THAT
ZELENSKY NEEDED TO MAKE CLEAR TO
PRESIDENT TRUMP  THAT HE WAS NOT
STANDING IN THE WAY OF
INVESTIGATIONS. ON
JULY 10th, AMBASSADOR SONDLAND
AND OTHER U.S. OFFICIALS MET AT
THE WHITE HOUSE WITH A GROUP OF
U.S. AND UKRAINIAN OFFICIALS.
PARTICIPANTS IN THE MEETING HAVE
TOLD US THAT AMBASSADOR SONDLAND
INVOKED ACTING WHITE HOUSE CHIEF
OF STAFF MICK MULVANEY  AND SAID
THE WHITE HOUSE MEETING SOUGHT
BY THE UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT WITH
TRUMP WOULD HAPPEN ONLY IF
UKRAINE UNDERTOOK
CERTAIN INVESTIGATIONS. NATIONAL
SECURITY ADVISOR BOLTON ABRUPTLY
ENDED THE MEETING UPON HEARING
THIS. UNDETERRED, HE BROUGHT THE
DELEGATION DOWNSTAIRS TO ANOTHER
PART OF THE WHITE HOUSE AND WAS
MORE EXPLICIT. ACCORDING TO
WITNESSES UKRAINE NEEDED TO
INVESTIGATE THE BIDEN'S OR
BURISMA  IF THEY WANTED TO GET A
MEETING
AT ALL. FOLLOWING THIS MEETING
IN JULY BOLTON SAID HE WOULD NOT
BE A PART OF WHATEVER DRUG DEAL
SONDLAND AND MULVANEY  ARE
COOKING UP
ON THIS. SONDLAND CONTINUED TO
PRESS FOR A MEETING THAT HE AND
OTHERS WERE WILLING TO SETTLE
FOR A PHONE CALL . ON JULY 21,
BUT PRESIDENT ZELENSKY IS
SENSITIVE ABOUT UKRAINE BEING
TAKEN SERIOUSLY NOT MERELY AS AN
INSTRUMENT OF WASHINGTON
DOMESTIC REELECTIONS. SONDLAND
RESPONDED ABSOLUTELY.  BUT WE
NEED TO GET THE CONVERSATION
STARTED AND THE RELATIONSHIP
BUILT PERSPECTIVE OF THE
PRETEXT. SO THAT ZELENSKY AND
TRUMP COULD MEET , AND ALL OF
THIS WILL BE FIXED. ON JULY
25th, THE DAY OF THE
TRUMP-ZELINSKI CALL,  SONDLAND
HAD LUNCH AND
GIVE  WITH THE AID TO PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY AND LATER TEXTED THE
AID TO SAY HE HAD HEARD FROM THE
WHITE HOUSE. ASSUMING PRESIDENT
C WOULD WE WOULD NAIL DOWN A
DATE FOR A VISIT TO WASHINGTON,
GOOD LUCK. AMBASSADOR SONDLAND
SPOKE TO PRESIDENT TRUMP A FEW
MINUTES BEFORE THE CALL WAS
PLACED  WAS NOT ON THE CALL. TRY
THAT NOW INFAMOUS PHONE CALL,
TRUMP RESPONDED TO THE UKRAINIAN
APPRECIATION FOR U.S. DEFENSE
SUPPORT AND AND REQUESTED TO BUY
MORE MISSILES BY SAYING I WOULD
LIKE YOU TO DO US A FAVOR. TRUMP
AS ZELENSKY  TO INVESTIGATE THE
DISCREDITED 2016 CONSPIRACY
THEORY AND EVEN MORE OMINOUSLY
LOOK INTO THE BIDEN'S. NEITHER
HAD BEEN A PART OF THE
PREMATURE MATERIAL FOR THE CALL
BUT THEY WERE IN DONALD TRUMP'S
PERSONAL INTEREST AND THE
INTEREST OF HIS REELECTION
CAMPAIGN. AND THE UKRAINIAN
PRESIDENT KNEW ABOUT BOTH
ADVANCE IN PART BECAUSE OF
AMBASSADOR SONDLAND  AND
AMBASSADOR VOLKER'S EFFORTS  TO
MAKE THEM AWARE OF THAT THE
PRESIDENT WAS DEMANDING. AROUND
THIS TIME, AMBASSADOR SONDLAND
BECAME
AWARE  OF THE SUSPENSION OF THE
SECURITY ASSISTANCE TO THE
UKRAINE WHICH HAVE BEEN
ANNOUNCED ON A SECURE
INTRA-AGENCY VIDEO ON JULY 18th
TELLING US IT WAS EXTREMELY ODD
THAT NOBODY INVOLVED IN
IMPLEMENTING POLICY KNEW WHY THE
AID HAD BEEN PUT ON HOLD. DURING
AUGUST,  SONDLAND PARTICIPATED
IN CONFERENCE CALLS  WITH VOLKER
AND GIULIANI  AND SAID THE JUST
GIST OF EVERY CALL, WHAT WAS
GOING TO GO INTO THE PRESS
STATEMENT. ON AUGUST 9th, A TEXT
MESSAGE WITH VOLKER STATED I
THINK
POTUS REALLY WANTS THE
DELIVERABLE. WHICH IS A
DELIVERABLE PUBLIC STATEMENT
THAT PRESIDENT TRUMP WANTED TO
SEE OR HEAR BEFORE A WHITE HOUSE
MEETING WOULD HAPPEN. ON
SEPTEMBER 1st, AMBASSADOR
SONDLAND  PARTICIPATED IN VICE
PRESIDENT PENCE'S BILATERAL
MEETING WITH PRESIDENT ZELENSKY
IN WARSAW. FOLLOWING THAT
MEETING, SONDLAND APPROACHED THE
SENIOR UKRAINIAN OFFICIAL  TO
TELL HIM THAT HE BELIEVED COULD
HELP THEM MOVE THE AID WAS IF
THE UKRAINIAN PROSECUTOR GENERAL
WOULD GO TO THE MICROPHONE AND
ANNOUNCED HE WAS OPENING THE
BURISMA INVESTIGATION.  SONDLAND
TOLD TAYLOR HE HAD MADE A
MISTAKE  BY TELLING THE
UKRAINIANS THAT AN
OVER OFFICE OVAL OFFICE MEETING
WAS DEPENDENT ON PUBLIC
ANNOUNCEMENT OF PUBLIC
INVESTIGATIONS, IN FACT
EVERYTHING WAS DEPENDENT ON SUCH
AN ANNOUNCEMENT INCLUDING
SECURITY ASSISTANCE. EVEN THE
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE PROSECUTOR
GENERAL WOULD NOT SATISFY THE
PRESIDENT. ON SEPTEMBER 7th
SONDLAND SPOKE TO THE PRESIDENT
AND TOLD  THEM ABOUT THE CALL
SHORTLY THEREAFTER. THE
PRESIDENT SAID ALTHOUGH THIS WAS
NOT A QUID PRO QUO IF PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY DID NOT CLEAR THINGS UP
IN PUBLIC, WE WOULD BE AT A
STALEMATE. AN ANNOUNCEMENT WOULD
NOT BE ENOUGH. PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY MUST ANNOUNCE
PERSONALLY THAT HE WOULD OPEN
THE INVESTIGATIONS. SONDLAND
TOLD TAYLOR  THAT PRESIDENT
TRUMP IS
A BUSINESSMAN. WHEN A
BUSINESSMAN IS ABOUT TO SIGN A
CHECK TO SOMEONE WHO OWES THEM
SOMETHING THE BUSINESSMAN ASKED
THAT PERSON TO PAY UP BEFORE
SIGNING THE CHECK. THE CHECK,
REFERRED TO HERE WAS THE U.S.
MILITARY ASSISTANCE TO THE
UKRAINE AND UKRAINE HAD TO PAY
UP
WITH INVESTIGATIONS. ON OCTOBER
THEY LOOKED TO SOUGHT TO CLOSE
THE DEAL. AFTER TAYLOR TEXTED
SONDLAND ON SEPTEMBER 9, 2019,
I THINK IT'S CRAZY TO WITHHOLD
SECURITY ASSISTANCE FOR HELP
WITH A LOCAL CAMPAIGN. 16
DAYS LATER, THE TRANSCRIPT OF
THE JULY 25th CALL WAS MADE
PUBLIC AND THE AMERICAN PEOPLE
LEARNED THE TRUTH OF HOW OUR
PRESIDENT TRIED TO TAKE
ADVANTAGE OF A NORMAL ALLY. NOW
IT IS UP TO CONGRESS AS THE
PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVES TO
DETERMINE WHAT RESPONSE
IS APPROPRIATE. IF THE PRESIDENT
ABUSED HIS POWER AND INVITED
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE INTO OUR
ELECTIONS IF HE SOUGHT TO
CONDITION, COURSE OR EXTORT AN
ALLY TO AID HIS REELECTION
CAMPAIGN AND DID SO BY
WITHHOLDING OFFICIAL NEEDED
MILITARY AID, IT WOULD BE UP TO
US TO DECIDE WHETHER THOSE ACTS
ARE COMPATIBLE WITH THE OFFICE
OF THE
PRESIDENCY. FINALLY, I WANT TO
SAY A WORD ABOUT THE PRESIDENT
AND SECRETARY POMPEO'S
OBSTRUCTION OF THIS
INVESTIGATION. WE HAVE NOT
RECEIVED A SINGLE DOCUMENT FROM
THE STATE DEPARTMENT
AND, AS AMBASSADOR SONDLAND'S
OPENING STATEMENT THEY WILL MAKE
CLEAR, THOSE DOCUMENTS BEAR
DIRECTLY ON THIS INVESTIGATION
AND THIS IMPEACHMENT INQUIRY. I
THINK WE KNOW NOW, BASED ON A
SAMPLE OF DOCUMENTS ATTACHED TO
AMBASSADOR SONDLAND'S STATEMENT
THAT THE KNOWLEDGE OF THE SCHEME
WAS FAR
AND WIDE. AND INCLUDED AMONG
OTHERS SECRETARY OF STATE
POMPEO, AS WELL AS THE VICE
PRESIDENT. WE CAN SEE WHY
SECRETARY POMPEO AND PRESIDENT
TRUMP HAVE MADE SUCH A CONCERTED
AND ACROSS-THE-BOARD EFFORT TO
OBSTRUCT THIS INVESTIGATION AND
THIS IMPEACHMENT INQUIRY. I WILL
JUST SAY THIS THEY DO SO AT
THEIR OWN PERIL. I REMIND THE
PRESIDENT THAT ARTICLE 3 OF THE
IMPEACHMENT ARTICLES DRAFTED
AGAINST PRESIDENT NIXON WAS HIS
REFUSAL TO OBEY THE SUBPOENAS OF
CONGRESS. WITH THAT, I RECOGNIZE
RANKING MEMBER NUNES FOR ANY
REMARKS HE WOULD WISH TO MAKE.
>> THANK YOU GENTLEMEN, AS WE
LEARNED LAST NIGHT, STORYTIME
LAST NIGHT, WE GET STORYTIME
FIRST THING THIS MORNING.
AMBASSADOR SONDLAND WELCOME.
GLAD YOU ARE HERE. REALLY NOT
GLAD YOU ARE HERE BUT WELCOME TO
THE FIFTH DAY OF
THE CIRCUS. AS I NOTED BEFORE,
THE DEMOCRATS ON THIS COMMITTEE
SPENT THREE YEARS ACCUSING
PRESIDENT TRUMP OF BEING A
RUSSIAN AGENT. IN MARCH, 2018
AFTER A YEAR-LONG INVESTIGATION,
INTELLIGENCE
COMMITTEE PUBLICANS ISSUED A 240
PAGE REPORT DESCRIBING IN DETAIL
HOW THE RUSSIANS MEDDLED IN THE
2016 ELECTIONS AND MAKING
SPECIFIC RECOMMENDATIONS TO
IMPROVE OUR
ELECTION SECURITY. DENOUNCING
THE REPORT AS A WHITEWASH AND
ACCUSING REPUBLICANS OF
DIVERTING THE INVESTIGATION THE
DEMOCRATS ISSUED THEIR OWN
REPORT. FOCUSING ON THERE NOW
DEBUNKED CONSPIRACY THEORY THAT
THE TRUMP CAMPAIGN COLLUDED WITH
RUSSIA TO HACK THE ELECTION.
NOTABLY, THE DEMOCRATS VOWED AT
THE TIME TO PRESENT A FURTHER
"COMPREHENSIVE REPORT" AFTER
THEY FINISHED THEIR
INVESTIGATION INTO TRUMP'S
TREASONOUS COLLUSION WITH
RUSSIA. FOR SOME COMPLETELY
EXCLUDABLE REASON INEXPLICABLE
REASON AFTER THE RUSSIA HOAX THE
DEMOCRATS FAILED TO ISSUE THAT
COMPREHENSIVE REPORT. WE ARE
STILL WAITING. THIS EPISODE
SHOWS HOW THE DEMOCRATS HAVE
EXPLOITED THE INTELLIGENCE
COMMITTEE FOR POLITICAL PURPOSES
FOR THREE YEARS. CULMINATING IN
THESE IMPEACHMENT HEARINGS AND
THEIR MANIA TO ATTACK THE
PRESIDENT. NO CONSPIRACY THEORY
IS TOO OUTLANDISH FOR
THE DEMOCRATS. TIME AND TIME
AGAIN THEY FLOATED THE
POSSIBILITY OF SOME FAR-FETCHED
MALFEASANCE BY TRUMP TO DECLARE
THE DIRE NEED TO INVESTIGATED
AND THEN SUDDENLY DROP THE ISSUE
AND MOVED ON TO THE NEXT ASININE
THEORY. A SAMPLING OF THE
ACCUSATIONS AND INSINUATIONS
INCLUDES THESE. TRUMP IS A
LONGTIME RUSSIAN AGENT AS
DESCRIBED IN THE STEELE DOSSIER.
THE RUSSIANS GAVE TRUMP
ADVANTAGE TO EMAILS STOLEN BY
THE DNC AND HILLARY CAMPAIGN.
THE TRUMP CAMPAIGN PAY SOME OF
THE ACTIVITIES OF THE STOLEN
DOCUMENTS. TRUMP RECEIVED
VARIOUS MATERIALS FROM THE
RUSSIANS THROUGH A TRUMP
CAMPAIGN AIDE. TRUMP LAUNDERED
RUSSIAN MONEY THROUGH REAL
ESTATE DEALS. TRUMP WAS
BLACKMAILED BY RUSSIA THROUGH
HIS FINANCIAL EXPORT EXPOSURE.
TRUMP HAD A DIABOLICAL PLAN TO
BUILD A TRUMP TOWER IN MOSCOW.
TRUMP CHANGED THE NATIONAL
COMMITTEE PLATFORM TO HURT
UKRAINE AND BENEFIT RUSSIA. THE
RUSSIANS LAUNDERED MONEY THROUGH
THE NRA THROUGH THE TRUMP
CAMPAIGN.
TRUMP'S SON-IN-LAW LIED ABOUT
HIS RUSSIAN CONTACTS WHILE
OBTAINING HIS SECURITY CURRENTS.
IT IS A LONG LIST OF CHARGES,
ALL FALSE. I CAN GO ON AND ON
AND ON BUT I WILL SPARE YOU FOR
THIS MOMENT. CLEARLY THESE
LUDICROUS ACCUSATIONS DO NOT
REFLECT COMMITTEE MEMBERS
HONESTLY SEARCHING FOR THE
TRUTH. THEY ARE THE ACTIONS OF
PARTISAN EXTREMISTS WHO HIJACKED
THE INTELLIGENCE COMMITTEE AND
TRANSFORMED IT INTO THE
IMPEACHMENT COMMITTEE. ABANDONED
ITS CORE OVERSIGHT FUNCTIONS AND
TURNED IT INTO A BEACHHEAD
TESTING AN ELECTED PRESIDENT
FROM OFFICE. YOU HAVE TO KEEP
THAT HISTORY IN MIND AS YOU
CONSIDER THE DEMOCRATS LATEST
CATALOG OF SUPPOSEDLY
OUTRAGEOUS. GRANTED, A FRIENDLY
CALL WITH
UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT WOULDN'T
SEEM TO RISE TO THE SAME LEVEL
AS BEING A RUSSIAN AGENT. IF THE
DEMOCRATS WERE RUNNING OUT OF
TIME. IF THEY WAITED ANY LONGER
THERE IMPEACHMENT CIRCUS WOULD
INTERVENE WITH THEIR OWN
CANDIDATE'S
20/20 CAMPAIGN. SO, YOU HAVE TO
GIVE THEM POINTS FOR CREATIVITY
AND SELLING THIS ABSURDITY AS AN
IMPEACHABLE OFFENSE. ALL THIS
EXPLAINS WHY THE DEMOCRATS HAVE
GATHERED ZERO REPUBLICAN SUPPORT
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
FOR THE IMPEACHMENT CRUSADE. IN
FACT THE VOTE WE HELD WAS A
BIPARTISAN VOTE AGAINST THIS
IMPEACHMENT INQUIRY. SPEAKER
PELOSI, CHAIRMAN SCHIFF , THE
KEY FIGURES BEHIND THIS
IMPEACHMENT REGRADE ALL CLAIM
THAT IMPEACHMENT IS SO DAMAGING
TO THE COUNTRY IT CAN ONLY
PROCEED WITH
BIPARTISAN SUPPORT. THOSE
DECLARATIONS ARE NO LONGER TRUE?
THAT DID IMPEACHMENT BECOME LESS
DIVISIVE? OF
COURSE NOT. THEY KNOW EXACTLY
WHAT KIND OF DAMAGE THEY ARE
INFLICTING ON THIS NATION. THEY
HAVE PASSED THE POINT OF NO
RETURN. AFTER THREE YEARS OF
PREPARATION WORK, MUCH OF IT
SPEARHEADED BY THE DEMOCRATS ON
THIS COMMITTEE, USING ALL THE
TOOLS OF CONGRESS TO ACCUSE,
INVESTIGATE, INDICT, AND SMEAR
THE PRESIDENT. THEY STOKED A
FRENZY AMONGST THE MOST
FANATICAL SUPPORTERS THAT THEY
CAN NO
LONGER CONTROL. AMBASSADOR
SONDLAND YOU ARE HERE TODAY  TO
BE SMEARED. BUT YOU WILL MAKE IT
THROUGH IT. AND, I APPRECIATE
YOUR SERVICE TO THIS COUNTRY AND
I'M SORRY YOU'VE HAD TO GO
THROUGH THIS.
IN CLOSING, DEMOCRATS HAVE
ZEROED IN ON AN ANONYMOUS
WHISTLEBLOWER COMPLAINT THAT WAS
COOKED UP IN COOPERATION AT THE
DEMOCRATS ON THIS VERY
COMMITTEE. THEY LIED TO THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE ABOUT THE
COOPERATION AND REFUSED TO LET
US QUESTION THE WHISTLEBLOWER TO
DISCOVER
THE TRUTH. MEANWHILE, THE
DEMOCRATS LASH OUT AGAINST
ANYONE WHO QUESTIONS OR CAST OUT
ON THE SPECTACLE. WHEN THE
UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT ZELENSKY
DENIES ANYTHING IMPROPER
HAPPENED ON THE PHONE CALL, THE
DEMOCRATS SAY HE IS A LIAR. WHEN
JOURNALISTS REPORT ON UKRAINE
ELECTION MEDDLING AND HUNTER
BIDEN'S POSITION ON THE BOARD OF
CORRUPT UKRAINIAN COMPANIES THE
DEMOCRATS LABEL THEM CONSPIRACY
THEORIES. WHEN THE DEMOCRATS
CANNOT GET ANY TRACTION FOR THE
ALLEGATIONS OF QUID PRO QUO,
THEY MOVE THE GOLD POST GOALPOST
AND ACCUSED THE PRESIDENT OF
EXTORTION, BRIBERY, AND A LAST
RESORT OBSTRUCTION OF JUSTICE.
THE AMERICAN PEOPLE SENT US TO
WASHINGTON TO SOLVE PROBLEMS,
NOT TO WAGE SCORCHED-EARTH
POLITICAL WARFARE AGAINST THE
OTHER PARTY. THIS IMPEACHMENT IS
NOT HELPING THE AMERICAN PEOPLE,
IT IS NOT A LEGITIMATE USE OF
TAXPAYER DOLLARS. AND IT IS
DEFINITELY NOT IMPROVING OUR
NATIONAL
SECURITY. FINALLY, THE DEMOCRATS
FAKE OUTRAGE THAT PRESIDENT
TRUMP HAS USED HIS OWN CHANNEL
TO COMMUNICATE
WITH UKRAINE REMIND MY FRIENDS
ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THE AISLE
THAT OUR FIRST PRESIDENT, GEORGE
WASHINGTON DIRECTED HIS OWN
DIPLOMATIC CHANNELS TO SECURE A
TREATY WITH
GREAT BRITAIN. IF MY DEMOCRATIC
COLLEAGUES WERE AROUND IN 1794
THEY PROBABLY WOULD WANT TO
IMPEACH HIM TOO. MR. CHAIRMAN,
THIS MORNING WE HAVE TRANSMITTED
TO YOU A LETTER EXERCISING OUR
RIGHT TO SUBPOENA DOCUMENTS AND
WITNESSES. YOU TAKE THE STEP
BECAUSE YOU FAILED TO ENSURE
FAIRNESS AND OBJECTIVITY IN THIS
INQUIRY. AS SUCH, WE NEED TO
SUBPOENA HUNTER BIDEN AND THE
WHISTLEBLOWER FOR CLOSED-DOOR
DEPOSITIONS AS WELL AS RELEVANT
DOCUMENTS FROM THE DNC, HUNTER
BIDEN'S FORM FIRM. AND THE
WHISTLEBLOWER. IN THE INTEREST
OF SOME BASIC LEVEL OF FAIRNESS
WE EXPECT YOU TO CONCUR WITH
THESE SUBPOENAS. I WILL SUBMIT
THAT LETTER FOR THE RECORD AND
YIELD BACK THE BALANCE OF MY
TIME.
>> I THANK YOU THE GENTLEMAN. WE
ARE JOINED THIS AFTERNOON BY
AMBASSADOR GORDON SONDLAND.
SORRY THIS MORNING. IT WAS A
LONG
DAY YESTERDAY GORDON SONDLAND IS
THE U.S. REPRESENTATIVE TO THE
EUROPEAN UNION WITH THE RANK OF
AMBASSADOR. BEFORE JOINING THE
STATE DEPARTMENT AMBASSADOR
SONDLAND WAS THE FOUNDER AND CEO
OF PROVIDENCE HOTELS  THE
NATIONAL OWNER AND OPERATOR OF
FULL-SERVICE
HOTELS. ALSO PRODUCE GOVERNMENT
SERVICE HE WAS ENGAGED IN
TERRIBLE CHARITABLE ENTERPRISES.
TWO FINAL POINTS BEFORE OUR
WITNESS IS SWORN FIRST WITNESS
DEPOSITIONS AS A PART OF THIS
INQUIRY WERE IN UNCLASSIFIED
IN NATURE AND ALL OPEN HEARINGS
WILL ALSO BE HELD AT THE
UNCLASSIFIED LEVEL. IN THE
INFORMATION THAT MAY TOUCH
UNCLASSIFIED INFORMATION WILL BE
ADDRESSED SEPARATELY. SECOND,
CONGRESS WILL NOT TOLERATE ANY
REPRISAL, THREAT, OR ATTEMPT TO
RETALIATE AGAINST ANY U.S.
OFFICIAL BEFORE TESTIFYING
BEFORE CONGRESS BEFORE YOU OR
ANY OF YOUR COLLEAGUES. IF YOU
WOULD PLEASE RISE AND RAISE YOUR
RIGHT HAND I'LL BEGIN BY
SWEARING YOU IN. DO YOU SWEAR
OR AFFIRM THE TESTIMONY YOU'RE
ABOUT TO GIVE IS THE TRUTH, THE
WHOLE TRUTH, AND NOTHING BUT THE
TRUTH, SO HELP YOU GOD? LET THE
RECORD SHOW THE WITNESS HAS
ANSWERED IN THE AFFIRMATIVE,
THANK YOU AND PLEASE BE SEATED.
THE MICROPHONE IS SENSITIVE,
PLEASE SPEAK DIRECTLY
INTO IT WITHOUT OBJECTION YOUR
WRITTEN STATEMENT WILL BE MADE A
PART OF THE RECORD AND WITH
THAT, AMBASSADOR SONDLAND YOU
ARE NOW RECOGNIZED FOR YOUR
OPENING STATEMENT.
>> THANK YOU MR. CHAIRMAN AND
THANK YOU RANKING MEMBER NUNES.
I APPRECIATE THE OPPORTUNITY TO
SPEAK AGAIN TO THE MEMBERS OF
THIS COMMITTEE. FIRST, LET ME
OFFER MY THANKS TO THE MEN AND
WOMEN OF THE U.S. DEPARTMENT OF
STATE WHO HAVE COMMITTED THEIR
PROFESSIONAL LIVES TO SUPPORT
THE FOREIGN POLICY WORK OF THE
UNITED STATES. IN PARTICULAR I
WANT TO THINK MY STAFF AT THE
U.S. MISSION TO THE EUROPEAN
UNION. YOUR INTEGRITY,
DEDICATION AND HARD WORK OFTEN
PERFORMED WITHOUT PUBLIC ACCLAIM
OR RECOGNITION SERVES AS A
SHINING EXAMPLE OF TRUE PUBLIC
SERVICE AND I AM PERSONALLY
GRATEFUL TO WORK BESIDE YOU EACH
AND
EVERY DAY. IT IS MY HONOR TO
SERVE AS THE U.S. AMBASSADOR TO
THE EUROPEAN UNION. THE U.S.
MISSION TO THE EU IS THE DIRECT
LINK BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES
AND THE EUROPEAN UNION, AND
ITS MEMBERS. AMERICA'S
LONG-STANDING ALLIES AND ONE OF
THE LARGEST ECONOMIC BLOCKS IN
THE WORLD. EVERY DAY, I WORKED
TO SUPPORT A STRONG, UNITED, AND
PEACEFUL EUROPE. STRENGTHENING
OUR TIES WITH EUROPE SERVES BOTH
AMERICAN AND EUROPEAN GOALS. AS
WE, TOGETHER PROMOTE VERTICAL
STABILITY AND ECONOMIC
PROSPERITY AROUND
THE WORLD. I EXPECT THAT FEW
AMERICANS HAVE HEARD MY NAME
BEFORE THESE EVENTS. BEFORE I
BEGIN,
MY SUBJECTIVE TESTIMONY PLEASE
LET ME GO AHEAD AND SHARE SOME
OF MY PERSONAL BACKGROUND.
SUBSTANTATIVE I PARENTS FLED
EUROPE DURING THE HOLOCAUST, THE
ESCAPING OF THE ATROCITIES OF
THAT TIME, MY PARENTS LEFT
GERMANY FOR URUGUAY, AND THEN
IN 1953 IMMIGRATED TO SEATTLE,
WASHINGTON WHERE I WAS BORN IN
RAISED. LIKE SO MANY IMMIGRANTS,
MY FAMILY WAS EAGER FOR FREEDOM
AND HUNGRY FOR OPPORTUNITY. THEY
RAISED MY SISTER AND ME TO BE
HUMBLE, HARD-WORKING, AND
PATRIOTIC. AND I AM FOREVER
GRATEFUL FOR THE SACRIFICES THEY
MADE ON OUR BEHALF. PUBLIC
SERVICE HAS ALWAYS BEEN
IMPORTANT TO ME. AS A LIFELONG
REPUBLICAN, I
HAVE CONTRIBUTED TO INITIATIVES
OF BOTH REPUBLICAN AND
DEMOCRATIC ADMINISTRATION. IN
2003, I SERVED AS A MEMBER OF
THE TRANSITION TEAM FOR OREGON
DEMOCRATIC GOVERNOR
TED GRONKOWSKI. HE ALSO
APPOINTED ME TO SERVE ON VERY
STATEWIDE BOARDS. IN 2007,
PRESIDENT GEORGE W. BUSH
APPOINTED ME AS A MEMBER OF THE
COMMISSION OF WHITE HOUSE
FELLOWS. I WORKED WITH PRESIDENT
BUSH ON CHARITABLE EVENTS FOR
HIS FOUNDATION'S MILITARY
SERVICE INITIATIVE. AND I ALSO
WORKED BRIEFLY WITH FORMER VICE
PRESIDENT JOE BIDEN'S OFFICE IN
CONNECTION WITH THE VICE
PRESIDENT'S NATIONWIDE
ANTICANCER INITIATIVE AT A LOCAL
NORTHWEST HOSPITAL. AND, OF
COURSE, THE HIGHEST HONOR IN MY
PUBLIC LIFE CAME WHEN
PRESIDENT TRUMP ASKED ME TO
SERVE AS THE UNITED STATES
AMBASSADOR TO THE
EUROPEAN UNION. THE SENATE
CONFIRMED ME AS AN AMBASSADOR ON
A BIPARTISAN VOICE VOTE AND I
ASSUMED THE ROLE IN MUST
BRUSSELS JULY
9th, 2018. ALTHOUGH TODAY IS MY
FIRST PUBLIC TESTIMONY ON THE
UKRAINE MATTERS, THIS MAKES FOR
IS NOT MY FIRST TIME COOPERATING
WITH
THIS COMMITTEE. AS YOU KNOW I'VE
ARTIE PROVIDED 10 HOURS OF
DEPOSITION TESTIMONY. AND I DID
SO DESPITE DIRECTIVES FROM THE
WHITE HOUSE, AND THE STATE
DEPARTMENT, THAT I REFUSED TO
APPEAR AS MANY OTHERS HAVE DONE.
I AGREED TO TESTIFY BECAUSE I
RESPECT THE GRAVITY OF THE
MOMENT AND I BELIEVE HAVE AN
OBLIGATION TO ACCOUNT FULLY FOR
MY ROLE IN
THESE EVENTS. BUT I ALSO MUST
ACKNOWLEDGE THAT THIS PROCESS
HAS BEEN CHALLENGING. IN MANY
RESPECTS, LESS
THAN FAIR. I HAVE NOT HAD ACCESS
TO ALL OF MY PHONE RECORDS,
STATE DEPARTMENT EMAILS, AND
MANY, MANY OTHER STATE
DEPARTMENT DOCUMENTS. I WAS TOLD
I CANNOT WORK WITH MY EU STAFF
TO PULL TOGETHER THE RELEVANT
FILES AND INFORMATION. HAVING
ACCESS TO THE STATE DEPARTMENT
MATERIALS WOULD HAVE BEEN VERY
HELPFUL TO ME IN TRYING TO
RECONSTRUCT WITH WHOM I SPOKE
AND MET, AND WHEN AND WHAT WAS
SAID.
AS AMBASSADOR, I'VE HAD HUNDREDS
OF MEETINGS AND CALLS WITH
INDIVIDUALS. BUT I AM NOT A
NOTETAKER OR A MEMO WRITER.
NEVER HAVE BEEN. MY JOB REQUIRES
THAT I SPEAK WITH HEADS
OF STATE, SENIOR
GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS, MEMBERS OF
THE CABINET, THE PRESIDENT,
ALMOST EACH AND EVERY DAY.
TALKING WITH FOREIGN LEADERS
MIGHT BE MEMORABLE TO SOME
PEOPLE, BUT THIS IS MY JOB. I DO
IT ALL THE TIME. MY LAWYERS AND
I HAVE A MULTIPLE REQUEST TO THE
STATE DEPARTMENT AND THE WHITE
HOUSE FOR THESE MATERIALS. YET,
THESE MATERIALS WERE NOT
PROVIDED TO ME AND THEY HAVE
ALSO REFUSED TO SHARE THESE
MATERIALS WITH THIS COMMITTEE.
THESE DOCUMENTS ARE NOT
CLASSIFIED AND,
IN FAIRNESS, IN FAIRNESS, SHOULD
HAVE BEEN MADE AVAILABLE. IN THE
ABSENCE OF THESE MATERIALS MY
MEMORY, ADMITTEDLY, HAS NOT BEEN
PERFECT AND I HAVE NO DOUBT THAT
A MORE FAIR, OPEN AND ORDERLY
PROCESS OF ALLOWING ME TO READ
THE STATE DEPARTMENT AND OTHER
MATERIALS WOULD HAVE MADE THIS
PROCESS FAR
MORE TRANSPARENT. I DON'T INTEND
TO REPEAT MY PRIOR OPENING
STATEMENT OR ATTEMPT
TO SUMMARIZE 10 HOURS OF
PREVIOUS DEPOSITION TESTIMONY.
HOWEVER, A FEW CRITICAL POINTS
HAVE BEEN OBSCURED BY NOISE OVER
THE LAST FEW DAYS AND WEEKS. I
AM WORRIED THAT THE BIGGER
PICTURE IS BEING IGNORED. SO,
LET ME MAKE A FEW KEY POINTS.
FIRST,
SECRETARY PERRY, AMBASSADOR
VOLKER  AND I WORKED WITH MR.
RUDY GIULIANI ON UKRAINE MATTERS
AT THE EXPRESSED DIRECTION OF
THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES. WE DID NOT WANT TO WORK
WITH MR. GIULIANI. SIMPLY PUT,
WE WERE PLAYING THE HAND WE WERE
DEALT. WE ALL UNDERSTOOD THAT IF
WE REFUSED TO WORK WITH MR.
GIULIANI, WE WOULD LOSE A VERY
IMPORTANT OPPORTUNITY TO CEMENT
RELATIONS BETWEEN THE UNITED
STATES AND UKRAINE. SO WE
FOLLOWED THE PRESIDENT'S
ORDERS. SECOND, ALTHOUGH WE
DISAGREED WITH THE NEED TO
INVOLVE MR. GIULIANI, AT THE
TIME WE DO NOT BELIEVE THAT HIS
ROLE
WAS IMPROPER. AS I PREVIOUSLY
TESTIFIED IF I HAD KNOWN OF ALL
OF MR. GIULIANI'S DEALINGS HIS
ASSOCIATIONS WITH INDIVIDUALS,
SOME OF WHOM WHO ARE NOW UNDER
CRIMINAL INDICTMENT I,
PERSONALLY WOULD NOT HAVE
ACQUIESCED TO HIS PARTICIPATION.
STILL, GIVEN WHAT WE KNEW AT THE
TIME, WHAT WE WERE ASKED TO DO
DID NOT APPEAR TO BE WRONG.
THIRD, LET ME SAY PRECISELY
BECAUSE WE DID NOT THINK THAT WE
WERE ENGAGING IN IMPROPER
BEHAVIOR, WE MADE EVERY EFFORT
TO ENSURE THAT THE RELEVANT
DECISION-MAKERS AT THE NATIONAL
SECURITY COUNCIL AND THE STATE
DEPARTMENT KNEW THE IMPORTANT
DETAILS OF
OUR EFFORTS. THE SUGGESTION THAT
WE WERE ENGAGED IN SOME
IRREGULAR OR ROGUE DIPLOMACY IS
ABSOLUTELY FALSE. I HAVE NOW
IDENTIFIED CERTAIN STATE
DEPARTMENT EMAILS AND MESSAGES
THAT PROVIDE CONTEMPORANEOUS
SUPPORT FOR MY VIEW. THESE
EMAILS SHOW THAT THE LEADERSHIP
OF THE STATE DEPARTMENT, THE
NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL, AND
THE WHITE HOUSE WERE ALL
INFORMED ABOUT THE UKRAINE
EFFORTS FROM MAY 23rd, 2019
UNTIL THE SECURITY AID WAS
RELEASED ON SEPTEMBER
11th, 2019. I WILL QUOTE FROM
SOME OF THESE MESSAGES WITH
YOU SHORTLY. AS I TESTIFIED
PREVIOUSLY, AS A TESTIFIED
PREVIOUSLY, MR. GIULIANI'S
REQUEST WERE A PRETTY QUID PRO
QUO FOR ANNOUNCING A OR
ARRANGING A VISIT FROM PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY. MR. GIULIANI DEMANDED
THAT UKRAINE MAKE A PUBLIC
STATEMENT ANNOUNCING THE
INVESTIGATIONS OF THE 2016
ELECTION,  THE DNC SERVER, AND
BURISMA.  MR. GIULIANI WAS
EXPRESSING THE DESIRES OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
AND WE KNEW THESE INVESTIGATIONS
WERE IMPORTANT TO
THE PRESIDENT. IN JULY AND
AUGUST OF 2019 WE LEARNED THAT
THE WHITE HOUSE HAD ALSO
SUSPENDED SECURITY AID
TO UKRAINE. I WAS ADAMANTLY
OPPOSED TO ANY SUSPENSION OF
AID. I WAS ADAMANTLY OPPOSED TO
ANY SUSPENSION OF AID AS
UKRAINIANS NEEDED THOSE FUNDS TO
FIGHT AGAINST RUSSIAN
AGGRESSION. I TRIED DILIGENTLY
TO ASK WHY THE AIDE WAS
SUSPENDED I NEVER RECEIVED A
CLEAR ANSWER, STILL HAVEN'T TO
THIS DAY. IN THE ABSENCE OF ANY
CREDIBLE EXPLANATION FOR THE
SUSPENSION OF AID I LATER CAME
TO BELIEVE THAT THE SECURITY AID
REDEMPTION WOULD NOT OCCUR UNTIL
THERE WAS A PUBLIC STATEMENT
FROM UKRAINE COMMITTING TO THE
INVESTIGATIONS OF THE 2016
ELECTIONS AND BURISMA , AS MR.
GIULIANI HAD DEMANDED. I SHARED
CONCERNS OF THE POTENTIAL QUID
PRO QUO REGARDING THE SECURITY
AID WITH SENATOR RON JOHNSON.
AND, I ALSO SHARED MY CONCERNS
WITH
THE UKRAINIANS. FINALLY, AT ALL
TIMES I WAS ACTING IN GOOD
FAITH. I WAS ACTING IN GOOD
FAITH. AS A PRESIDENTIAL
APPOINTEE, I FOLLOWED THE
DIRECTIONS OF THE PRESIDENT. WE
WORKED WITH MR. GIULIANI BECAUSE
THE PRESIDENT DIRECTED US TO DO
SO. WE HAD NO DESIRE TO SET ANY
CONDITIONS. WE HAD NOTICED HER
TO SET ANY CONDITIONS ON THE
UKRAINIANS. INDEED MY OWN
PERSONAL VIEW, WHICH I SHARED
REPEATEDLY WITH OTHERS, WAS AT
THE WHITE HOUSE, AND SECURITY
ASSISTANCE SHOULD HAVE PROCEEDED
WITHOUT PRECONDITIONS OF ANY
KIND. WE WERE WORKING TO
OVERCOME THE PROBLEMS GIVEN THE
FACT AS THEY EXISTED. OUR ONLY
INTEREST, AND MY ONLY INTEREST
WAS TO ADVANCE LONG-STANDING
U.S. POLICY AND TO SUPPORT
UKRAINE'S
FRAGILE DEMOCRACY. NOW, LET ME
PROVIDE ADDITIONAL DETAIL,
SPECIFICALLY ABOUT UKRAINE AND
MY
INVOLVEMENT. FIRST, MY VERY
FIRST DAYS AS AMBASSADOR TO THE
EU, WHICH WAS STARTING BACK IN
JULY OF 2018 UKRAINE HAS
FEATURED, PROMINENTLY IN MY
BROADER PORTFOLIO. UKRAINE'S
POLITICAL AND ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT ARE CRITICAL TO THE
LONG-STANDING AND LONG-LASTING
STABILITY OF EUROPE. MOREOVER,
THE CONFLICT IN EASTER UKRAINE
REMAINS ONE OF THE MOST
SIGNIFICANT SECURITY CRISIS FOR
EUROPE AND THE DATES. UNITED
STATES. OUR EFFORTS
TO COUNTER AN AGGRESSIVE RUSSIA
STAND IN PART ON A STRONG
UKRAINE. ON APRIL 21st, 2019,
VLADIMIR ZELENSKY  WAS ELECTED
PRESIDENT OF UKRAINE IN HISTORIC
ELECTION. WITH THE EXPRESSED
SUPPORT OF SECRETARY POMPEO, I
ATTENDED PRESIDENT ZELENSKY'S
INAUGURATION ON MAY 20th AS A
PART OF THE U.S. DELEGATION
WHICH WAS LED BY ENERGY
SECRETARY RICK PERRY. THE U.S.
DELEGATION ALSO INCLUDED SENATOR
JOHNSON, UKRAINE SPECIAL ENVOY
VOLKER
AND ALEX VINDMAN OF THE SECURITY
COUNCIL.  MY ATTENDANCE AT
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY'S
INAUGURATION WAS NOT MY FIRST
INVOLVEMENT WITH UKRAINE. AS I
TESTIFIED PREVIOUSLY, JUST FOUR
DAYS AFTER ASSUMING MY POST AS
AMBASSADOR, IN JULY
OF 2018 I RECEIVED AN OFFICIAL
DELEGATION FROM THE GOVERNMENT
OF THEN
UKRAINE PRESIDENT. THE MEETING
TOOK PLACE AT THE U.S. MISSION
IN BRUSSELS AND WAS PREARRANGED
BY MY CAREER EU MISSION STAFF
AND I'VE HAD SEVERAL MEETINGS
SINCE THEN IN BRUSSELS. LATER,
IN FEBRUARY OF 2019, I WORKED
WELL WITH THE U.S. AMBASSADOR
YOVANOVITCH, AND MAKING MY FIRST
OFFICIAL VISIT  TO UKRAINE OR A
U.S. NAVY VISIT TO THE BLACK SEA
PORT OF ODESSA. THE REASON I
RAISE THESE PRIOR UKRAINE
ACTIVITIES, THE MEETINGS IN
BRUSSELS, MY VISIT TO ODESSA IS
TO EMPHASIZE THAT UKRAINE HAS
BEEN A PART OF MY PORTFOLIO FROM
MY VERY FIRST DAYS AS THE U.S.
AND LASSITER. ANY CLAIM THAT I
SOMEHOW MUSCLED MY WAY INTO THE
UKRAINE RELATIONSHIP IS
SIMPLY FALSE. DURING THE
ZELENSKY INAUGURATION ON MAY
20th  THE U.S. DELEGATION
DEVELOPED A VERY POSITIVE VIEW
OF THE UKRAINIAN GOVERNMENT. WE
WERE IMPRESSED AT PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY'S DESIRE TO PROMOTE A
STRONGER RELATIONSHIP WITH THE
UNITED STATES. WE ADMIRED HIS
COMMITMENT TO REFORM AND WERE
EXCITED ABOUT THE POSSIBILITY OF
UKRAINE MAKING THE
CHANGES NECESSARY TO SUPPORT A
GREATER WESTERN ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT. AND, WE
WERE EXCITED THAT UKRAINE MIGHT,
AFTER YEARS AND YEARS OF
LIPSERVICE FINALLY GET SERIOUS
ABOUT ADDRESSING ITS OWN
WELL-KNOWN CORRUPTION PROBLEMS.
WITH THAT ENTHUSIASM, WE
RETURNED TO THE WHITE HOUSE ON
MAY 23rd TWO BRIEF PRESIDENT
TRUMP. WE ADVISE THE PRESIDENT
OF THE STRATEGIC IMPORTANCE OF
UKRAINE AND THE IMPORTANCE OF
VALUING OR STRENGTHENING THE
RELATIONSHIP WITH PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY. WE ASKED THE WHITE
HOUSE FOR TWO THINGS. FIRST, A
WORKING PHONE CALL BETWEEN
PRESIDENT TRUMP AND PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY AND SECOND, A WORKING
OVAL OFFICE VISITS. IN OUR VIEW,
BOTH
WERE VITAL TO CEMENTING THE
U.S.-UKRAINE RELATIONSHIP.
DEMONSTRATING SUPPORT AND
ADVANCING BROADER U.S.
FOREIGN-POLICY INTEREST.
UNFORTUNATELY, PRESIDENT TRUMP
WAS SKEPTICAL. THE UKRAINIAN
GOVERNMENT WAS, HE EVEN
MENTIONED THAT UKRAINE TRIED TO
TAKE HIM DOWN IN THE
LAST ELECTION. IN RESPONSE TO
OUR EFFORTS TO CHANGE
HIS VIEWS HE ENCOURAGED US TO
TALK WITH RUDY. WE UNDERSTOOD
THAT TALK WITH
RUDY MEANT TALK WITH MR. RUDY
GIULIANI, THE PRESIDENT'S
PERSONAL LAWYER. LET ME SAY
AGAIN, WE WEREN'T HAPPY WITH THE
PRESIDENT'S DIRECTIVE
TO TALK WITH REALLY, WE DO NOT
WANT TO INVOLVE
MR. GIULIANI. THE MEN AND WOMEN
OF THE STATE DEPARTMENT, NOT THE
PRESIDENT'S PERSONAL LAWYER
SHOULD TAKE RESPONSIBILITY FOR
UKRAINE MATTERS. NONETHELESS,
BASED ON THE PRESIDENT'S
DIRECTION, WE WERE FACED WITH
A CHOICE.
WHICH WAS UNQUESTIONABLY IN OUR
FOREIGN-POLICY INTEREST OR, WE
COULD DO AS PRESIDENT TRUMP HAD
DIRECTED AND AND TALK WITH RUDY.
WE CHOSE THE LATTER COURSE, NOT
BECAUSE WE LIKED IT BUT BECAUSE
IT WAS THE ONLY CONSTRUCTIVE
PATH OPEN
TO US. OVER THE COURSE OF THE
NEXT SEVERAL MONTHS,
SECRETARY PERRY, AMBASSADOR
VOLKER AND I WERE IN
COMMUNICATION WITH MR. GIULIANI.
SECRETARY PERRY VOLUNTEERED TO
MAKE THE INITIAL CALLS WITH MR.
GIULIANI GIVEN THEIR
PRIOR RELATIONSHIP. AMBASSADOR
VOLKER MADE SEVERAL OF THE EARLY
CALLS  AND GENERALLY INFORMED US
OF WHAT
WAS DISCUSSED. I FIRST
COMMUNICATED WITH MR. GIULIANI
IN EARLY AUGUST, SEVERAL MONTHS
LATER. MR.
GIULIANI EMPHASIZED THAT THE
PRESIDENT WANTED A PUBLIC
STATEMENT FROM PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY COMMITTING UKRAINE TO
LOOK INTO THE
ELECTION ISSUES. I MENTIONED THE
2016 ELECTION, INCLUDING THE DNC
SERVER AND BURISMA  AS TWO
TOPICS OF IMPORTANCE TO THE
PRESIDENT. WE KEPT THE
LEADERSHIP OF THE STATE
DEPARTMENT AND
THE NFC INFORMED OF OUR
ACTIVITIES AND THAT INCLUDED
COMMUNICATIONS WITH SECRETARY OF
STATE POMPEO,
HIS COUNSELOR, LISA KENNA AND
ALSO COMMUNICATIONS WITH
AMBASSADOR BOLTON, DR. HILL, MR.
MORRISON, AND THEY ARE STAFFED
AT
THE NFC. THEY KNEW WHAT WE WERE
DOING, AND WHY. ON JULY
10th, 2019 SENIOR UKRAINIAN
NATIONAL SECURITY OFFICIALS MET
WITH AMBASSADOR BOLTON,
AMBASSADOR
VOLKER , SECRETARY PERRY,
MYSELF, AND SEVERAL OTHERS IN
WASHINGTON, D.C. DURING THAT
MEETING WE ALL DISCUSSED THE
IMPORTANCE OF THE TWO ACTION
ITEMS IDENTIFIED EARLIER. ONE, A
WORKING PHONE CALL AND TWO, A
WHITE HOUSE MEETING BETWEEN
PRESIDENT TRUMP AND ZELENSKY.
FROM MY PERSPECTIVE, THE JULY
10th MEETING WAS A POSITIVE STEP
TOWARDS ACCOMPLISHING OUR
SHARED GOALS. WHILE I AM NOW
AWARE OF ACCOUNT OF THE MEETING
FROM DR. HILL AND LIEUTENANT
COLONEL VINDMAN,  THE
RECOLLECTIONS SIMPLY DO NOT
SQUARE WITH MY OWN. OR WITH
THOSE OF AMBASSADOR VOLKER
SECRETARY
PERRY.
I DO NOT RECALL ANY YELLING OR
SCREAMING OR ABRUPT TERMINATIONS
AS OTHERS HAVE SAID. INSTEAD,
AFTER THE MEETING, AMBASSADOR
BOLTON WALKED WALKED OUTSIDE
WITH OUR GROUP AND WE ALL TOOK
GREAT PICTURES TOGETHER OUTSIDE
ON THE WHITE HOUSE LAWN. MORE
IMPORTANT, THOSE RECOLLECTIONS
OF PROTEST DID NOT SQUARE WITH
THE
DOCUMENTARY RECORD OF OUR
INTERACTIONS WITH THE NFC IN THE
DAYS AND WEEKS THAT FOLLOWED. WE
KEPT THE NFC APPRISED OF OUR
EFFORTS INCLUDING, SPECIFICALLY,
OUR EFFORTS TO SECURE A PUBLIC
STATEMENT FROM THE UKRAINIANS
THAT WOULD SATISFY PRESIDENT
TRUMP'S CONCERNS. FOR EXAMPLE,
ON
JULY 13th, AND THIS IS THREE
DAYS AFTER THE JULY 10th
MEETING, I EMAILED
TIM MORRISON. HE HAD JUST TAKEN
OVER DR. HILL'S POST AND I MET
HIM THAT DAY FOR THE FIRST TIME.
I WROTE TO MR. MORRISON WITH
THESE WORDS. "THE  CALL BETWEEN
ZELENSKY AND POTUS  SHOULD
HAPPEN BEFORE 721 7/21, WHICH IS
THE PARLIAMENTARY ELECTIONS
IN UKRAINE." SOLE PURPOSE IS FOR
ZELENSKY TO GIVE POTUS
ASSURANCES OF NEW SHERIFF IN
TOWN, CORRUPTION ENDING,
UNBUNDLING MOVING FORWARD AND,
AND I EMPHASIZE, ANY HAMPERED
INVESTIGATIONS WILL BE ALLOWED
TO MOVE
FORWARD TRANSPARENTLY. THE GOAL
IS FOR POTUS TO INVITE HIM TO
THE OVAL. VOLKER, PERRY, BOLTON
AND I  STRONGLY RECOMMEND. MR.
MORRISON ACKNOWLEDGED AND SAID
TO YOU I THANK YOU AND NOTED
THAT HE WAS TRACKING THESE
ISSUES. AGAIN, THERE WAS NO
SECRET REGARDING MOVING FORWARD
AND THE DISCUSSION OF
INVESTIGATION. MOREOVER I'VE
REVIEWED OTHER STATE DEPARTMENT
DOCUMENTS SOME OF WHICH ARE NOT
IN THE CURRENT PUBLIC DOMAIN.
DETAILING MR.
GIULIANI'S EFFORTS. FOR EXAMPLE
ON JULY 10th, THE VERY SAME DAY
THAT AMBASSADOR VOLKER COME
SECRETARY PERRY , AND I WERE
MEETING WITH THE UKRAINE
OFFICIALS IN WASHINGTON,
AMBASSADOR TAYLOR RECEIVED A
COMMUNICATION THAT MR. GIULIANI
WAS STILL TALKING WITH
UKRAINIAN PROSECUTOR. AND WHAT'S
UP MESSAGES WITH AMBASSADOR
VOLKER AND I, AMBASSADOR TAYLOR
WROTE TO US AS FOLLOWS. JUST HAD
A MEETING,
REFERRING TO THE UKRAINIAN
FOREIGN MINISTER. THE UKRAINIANS
WERE "VERY CONCERNED ABOUT WHAT
WAS TOLD TO THEM, THAT ACCORDING
TO RG, MEETING RUDY GIULIANI,
THE ZELENSKY-POTUS MEETING WILL
NOT HAPPEN."  VOLKER RESPONDED,
GOOD GRIEF  PLEASE TELL THE DEAN
TO LET THE OFFICIAL U.S.
GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVES SPEAK
FOR
THE U.S. HE HAD HIS OWN SELF
INTEREST. TAYLOR CONFIRMED HE
HAD ALREADY COMMUNICATED THAT TO
THE UKRAINIANS AND HE ADDED I
BRIEFED HIM THIS AFTERNOON ON
THIS. REFERRING TO STATE
DEPARTMENT COUNSELOR OR QUILT.
EVERYONE IS IN
THE LOOP. THREE THINGS ARE
CRITICAL ABOUT THIS EXCHANGE.
FIRST WHILE THE UKRAINIANS WERE
IN WASHINGTON, MR.
GIULIANI WAS COMMUNICATING WITH
UKRAINIANS WITHOUT OUR
KNOWLEDGE. AMBASSADOR TAYLOR,
AMBASSADOR VOLKER AND I
WERE ALL OF THIS, SECOND, MR.
GIULIANI WAS COMMUNICATING WITH
THE
CORRUPT PROSECUTOR AND
DISCUSSING WHETHER A
ZELENSKY-TRUMP MEETING WAS GOING
TO HAPPEN  AGAIN WITHOUT
OUR KNOWLEDGE. AND THIRD WITH
THIS ALARMING NEWS, AMBASSADOR
TAYLOR BRIEFED ULRICH BRECHBUHL,
WHO WAS THE COUNSELOR  TO
SECRETARY OF STATE POMPEO. EVEN
AS LATE AS SEPTEMBER 24th OF
THIS YEAR SECRETARY POMPEO WAS
DIRECTING KURT VOLKER TO SPEAK
WITH MR. GIULIANI. IN A WHATSAPP
MESSAGE KURT VOLKER TOLD ME AND
PART SPOKE WITH RUDY PER
GUIDANCE PER S, THAT IS THE
STATE DESIGNATOR FOR THE
STATE DEPARTMENT. WE TRIED OUR
BEST TO FIX THE PROBLEM WHILE
KEEPING THE STATE DEPARTMENT AND
THE NFC CLOSELY APPRISED OF THE
CHALLENGES WE FACED ON JULY
25th, PRESIDENT TRUMP AND
ZELENSKY HAD THEIR OFFICIAL
CALLS.  I WAS NOT ON THE CALL, I
DON'T THINK I WAS INVITED TO BE
ON THE CALL. IN FACT, I FIRST
READ THE TRANSCRIPT ON SEPTEMBER
25th, THE DAY IT WAS PUBLICLY
RELEASED. ALL I HAD HEARD, AT
THAT TIME, WAS THAT THE CALL HAD
GONE WELL. LOOKING BACK, I FIND
IT VERY ODD, VERY ODD THAT
NEITHER I, NOR AMBASSADOR
TAYLOR, NOR AMBASSADOR VOLKER
EVER RECEIVED A DETAILED
READOUT OF THE CALL WITH THE
BIDEN REFERENCES. NOW THERE ARE
PEOPLE WHO SAY THEY HAD CONCERNS
ABOUT THE CALL BUT NO ONE SHARED
ANY CONCERNS ABOUT THE CALL WITH
ME AT THE TIME WHICH, FRANKLY
WOULD HAVE BEEN VERY HELPFUL
TO KNOW. ON JULY 26, AMBASSADOR
TAYLOR, AMBASSADOR VOLKER  AND I
WERE ALL IN CARE OF TO MEET WITH
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY. THE TIMING
OF THAT TRIP IMMEDIATELY AFTER
THE CALL BETWEEN PRESIDENT TRUMP
AND ZELENSKY  WAS ENTIRELY,
ENTIRELY COINCIDENTAL. THE KEY
OF MEETINGS HAVE BEEN SCHEDULED
WELL BEFORE THE DATE THAT THE
WHITE HOUSE FINALLY FIXED THE
CALL. DURING OUR KEY OF MEETING
I DO NOT RECALL PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY DISCUSSING THE
SUBSTANCE OF HIS JULY 25th CALL
WITH PRESIDENT TRUMP. NOR DID HE
DISCUSS ANY REQUEST TO
INVESTIGATE VICE PRESIDENT
BIDEN, WHICH WE ALL LATER
LEARNED WAS DISCUSSED ON THE
JULY
25th CALL. AND THIS IS
CONSISTENT WITH THE REPORTED
COMMENTS FROM AMBASSADORS VOLKER
AND TAYLOR.  AFTER THE ZELENSKY
MEETING  I ALSO MET WITH
ZELENSKY'S SENIOR
AIDE.  I DON'T RECALL THE
SPECIFICS OF OUR CONVERSATION
BUT I BELIEVE THE ISSUE OF
INVESTIGATIONS WAS PROBABLY
APART OF THAT AGENDA OR MEETING.
ALSO, ON JULY 26, SHORTLY AFTER
OUR KEY HAVE MEETINGS I SPOKE BY
PHONE WITH PRESIDENT TRUMP. THE
WHITE HOUSE, WHICH IS FINALLY,
FINALLY SHARED CERTAIN CALL
DATES AND TIMES WITH MY
ATTORNEYS CONFIRMS THIS. THE
CALL LASTED FIVE MINUTES. I
REMEMBER I WAS AT A RESTAURANT
IN KIEV AND I HAVE NO REASON TO
DOUBT THAT THIS CONVERSATION
INCLUDED THE SUBJECT OF
INVESTIGATION. AGAIN, GIVEN MR.
GIULIANI'S DEMAND THAT PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY MAKE A PUBLIC STATEMENT
ABOUT INVESTIGATIONS, I KNEW
THAT INVESTIGATIONS WERE
IMPORTANT TO PRESIDENT TRUMP. WE
DID NOT DISCUSS ANY
CLASSIFIED INFORMATION. OTHER
WITNESSES HAVE RECENTLY SHARED
THE RECOLLECTION OF OVERHEARING
THIS CALL. FOR THE MOST PART, I
HAVE NO REASON TO DOUBT THEIR
ACCOUNTS. IT IS TRUE THE
PRESIDENT SPEAKS LOUDLY AT TIMES
AND IT IS ALSO TRUE, I THINK WE
PRIMARILY DISCUSSED A$AP ROCKY.
>>
>> GIVEN WHAT WE ARE HEARING FOR
MR. GIULIANI, HOWEVER I HAVE NO
RECOLLECTIONS OF DISCUSSING VICE
PRESIDENT BIDEN OR HIS SON ON
THE CALLER AFTER THE CALL. I
KNOW THAT MEMBERS OF THIS
COMMITTEE FREQUENTLY FRAME THESE
COMPLICATED ISSUES IN THE FORM
OF A SIMPLE QUESTION. WAS THERE
A QUID PRO QUO? AS I TESTIFIED
PREVIOUSLY WITH REGARD TO THE
REQUESTED WHITE HOUSE CALL AND
THE WHITE HOUSE MEETING, THE
ANSWER IS YES. MR. GIULIANI
CONVEYED TO SECRETARY PERRY,
AMBASSADOR VOLKER AND OTHERS
THAT
PRESIDENT TRUMP WANTED A PUBLIC
STATEMENT FROM
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY COMMITTING TO
INVESTIGATIONS OF BURISMA AND
THE 2016 ELECTION  MR. GIULIANI
EXPRESSED THOSE REQUESTS
DIRECTLY TO THE PRESIDENT AND HE
ALSO EXPRESSED THOSE DIRECTLY TO
US. WE ALL UNDERSTOOD THAT THESE
PREREQUISITES FOR THE WHITE
HOUSE CALL AND THE WHITE HOUSE
MEETING REFLECTED PRESIDENT
TRUMP'S DESIRES
AND REQUIREMENTS. WITHIN MY
STATE DEPARTMENT EMAILS, THERE
IS A JULY 19th EMAIL. THIS WAS
SENT, THIS EMAIL WAS SENT TO
SECRETARY POMPEO,
SECRETARY PERRY, BRIAN McCORMACK
WHO IS SECRETARY PERRY'S CHIEF
OF STAFF AT THE TIME. MS. KENNA
WHO IS THE ACTING, PARDON ME,
WHO IS THE EXECUTIVE SET TERRY
FOR SECRETARY POMPEO., CHIEF OF
STAFF MULVANEY, AND MR.
MULVANEY'S SENIOR ADVISOR ROB
BLAIR. A LOT OF
SENIOR OFFICIALS. A LOT OF
SENIOR OFFICIALS. HERE IS MY
EXACT QUOTE FROM THAT EMAIL. "I
TALKED TO ZELENSKY JUST
NOW.  HE IS PREPARED TO RECEIVE
POTUS' CALL. WILL ASSURE HIM
THAT HE INTENDS TO RUN A FULLY
TRANSPARENT INVESTIGATION AND
WILL TURN OVER
EVERY STONE. HE WOULD GREATLY
APPRECIATE A CALL PRIOR TO
SUNDAY SO THAT HE CAN PUT OUT
SOME MEDIA ABOUT A FRIENDLY AND
PRODUCTIVE CALL,
NO DETAILS, PRIOR TO UKRAINE
ELECTION
ON SUNDAY. CHIEF OF STAFF
MULVANEY RESPONDED. I ASKED THE
NFC TO SET UP FOR TOMORROW.
EVERYONE WAS IN
THE LOOP. IT WAS NO SECRET,
EVERYONE WAS INFORMED VIA EMAIL
ON JULY 19th. DAYS BEFORE THE
PRESIDENTIAL CALL. AS I
COMMUNICATED TO THE TEAM I TOLD
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY IN ADVANCE
THAT ASSURANCES TO RUN A FULLY
TRANSPARENT INVESTIGATION AND
TURN OVER EVERY STONE WERE
NECESSARY AND HIS CALL WITH
PRESIDENT TRUMP. ON JULY 19th IN
A WHATSAPP MESSAGE BETWEEN
AMBASSADOR TAYLOR, AMBASSADOR
VOLKER, AND ME.  AMBASSADOR
VOLKER STATED " HAD BREAKFAST
WITH RUDY THIS MORNING."
THAT IS AMBASSADOR VOLKER AND
RUDY GIULIANI. " TEEING UP CALL
WITH ANDRE
TO MONDAY. MOST IMPORTANT IS FOR
ZELENSKY TO SAY THAT HE WILL
HELP  INVESTIGATION AND ADDRESS
ANY SPECIFIC PERSONAL ISSUES IF
THERE ARE ANY. ON AUGUST 10th,
HE TEXTED ME. ONCE WE HAVE
A DATE, WHICH IS A DATE FOR THE
WHITE HOUSE MEETING WILL CALL
FOR A PRESS BRIEFING ANNOUNCING
UPCOMING VISIT AND OUTLINING
VISION FOR THE REBOOT OF THE
U.S.-UKRAINE RELATIONSHIP
INCLUDING AMONG OTHER THINGS
BURISMA AND ELECTION MEDDLING
IN INVESTIGATIONS. THIS IS
FROM MR. YERMAK TO
ME.  THE FOLLOWING DAY, AUGUST
11th, AND THIS IS CRITICAL, I
SENT AN EMAIL TO COUNSEL HER
ULRICH BRECHBUHL AND LISA
CANNOT.
LISA KENNA WAS FREQUENTLY USED
AS THE PATHWAY TO SECRETARY
POMPEO AS SOMETIMES HE PREFERRED
TO RECEIVE HIS EMAILS THROUGH
HER. SHE WOULD PRINT THEM OUT
AND PUT THEM IN FRONT
OF HIM. I REFERRED I
WROTE "MIKE,  KURT AND I
NEGOTIATED A STATEMENT FROM
ZELENSKY TO BE DELIVERED FOR OUR
REVIEW  IN A DAY OR TWO. THE
CONTENT WILL
HOPEFULLY MAKE THE BOSS HAPPY
ENOUGH, THE BOSS BEING THE
PRESIDENT, TO AUTHORIZE AN
INVEST INVITATION. ZELENSKY
PLANS TO HAVE A
BIG PRESSER ON THE OPEN THE
SUBJECT, INCLUDING SPECIFICS
NEXT WEEK. ALL OF WHICH REFERRED
TO THE 2016 AND
BURISMA.
MRS KENNA REPLIED GORDON I WILL
PASS TO THE SECRETARY. EVERYONE
WAS IN THE LOOP. CURIOUSLY, AND
THIS WAS VERY INTERESTING TO ME,
ON AUGUST 26, SHORTLY BEFORE HIS
VISIT
TO HAVE, KIEV, AMBASSADOR
BOLTON'S OFFICE REQUESTED THAT
MR. GIULIANI'S CONTACT
INFORMATION FROM ME. I SENT
AMBASSADOR BOLTON THE
INFORMATION DIRECTLY. THEY
REQUESTED MR. GIULIANI'S
CONTACT INFORMATION ON
AUGUST 26 I WAS FIRST INFORMED
THAT THE WHITE HOUSE WAS
WITHHOLDING SECURITY AID TO
THE UKRAINE DURING CONVERSATIONS
WITH AMBASSADOR TAYLOR ON JULY
18th. 2019. HOWEVER, AS A
TESTIFIED BEFORE, I WAS NEVER
ABLE TO OBTAIN A CLEAR ANSWER
REGARDING THE SPECIFIC REASON
FOR THE HOLD, WHETHER IT WAS A
BUREAUCRATIC IN NATURE, WHICH
OFTEN HAPPENS, OR REFLECTED SOME
OTHER CONCERN. I NEVER
PARTICIPATED IN ANY OF THE
SUBSEQUENT DOD OR DRS
REVIEW MEETINGS. THAT OTHERS
HAVE DESCRIBED. SO I CAN'T SPEAK
TO WHAT WAS DISCUSSED IN THOSE
MEETINGS. NONETHELESS BEFORE THE
SEPTEMBER 1st WARSAW MEETING
UKRAINIANS HAVE BECOME AWARE
THAT SECURITY FUNDS HAD YET TO
BE DISPERSED. IN THE ABSENCE OF
ANY CREDIBLE EXPLANATION FOR THE
HOLD I CAME TO THE CONCLUSION
THAT THE AID, LIKE THE WHITE
HOUSE VISIT WAS JEOPARDIZED. IN
PREPARATION FOR THE SEPTEMBER
1st WARSAW MEETING, I ASKED
SECRETARY POMPEO WHETHER A FACE
TO FACE CONVERSATION BETWEEN
TRUMP AND ZELENSKY  WOULD HELP
TO BREAK THE LOGJAM AND THIS WAS
WHEN PRESIDENT TRUMP WAS STILL
INTENDING TO TRAVEL TO WARSAW.
SPECIFICALLY, ON AUGUST 22nd, I
EMAILED SECRETARY POMPEO
DIRECTLY
COPYING SECRETARY KENNA. I
WROTE, THIS IS MY EMAIL TO
SECRETARY POMPEO. "SHOULD WE
BLOCK TIME IN WARSAW FOR A SHORT
PULL ASIDE FOR POTUS TO MEET
ZELENSKY.  I WOULD ASK ZELENSKY
TO LOOK HIM IN THE EYE  AND
TELL HIM THAT ONCE UKRAINE'S NEW
JUSTICE FOLKS ARE IN PLACE IN
MID-SEPTEMBER THAT
ZELENSKY  SHOULD BE ABLE TO MOVE
FORWARD PUBLICLY AND WITH
CONFIDENCE ON THOSE ISSUES OF
IMPORTANCE TO POTUS AND THE U.S.
HOPEFULLY, THAT WILL HELP BREAK
THE LOGJAM. THE SECRETARY
REPLIED YES. I FOLLOWED UP THE
NEXT DAY ASKING TO GET 10-15
MINUTES ON THE WARSAW SCHEDULE
FOR THIS. I SAID, WE WOULD LIKE
TO KNOW WHEN IT IS LOCKED SO I
CAN TELL ZELENSKY AND BRIEFED
HIM.
EXECUTIVE SECRETARY KENNA
REPLIED, I WILL TRY FOR SURE.
MOREOVER, GIVEN MY CONCERNS
ABOUT THE SECURITY AID, I HAVE
NO REASON TO DISPUTE THAT
PORTION OF SENATOR JOHNSON'S
RECENT LEVER LETTER IN WHICH HE
RECALLS CONVERSATIONS THAT HE
AND I HAD ON AUGUST 30th. BY THE
END OF AUGUST MY BELIEF WAS IF
UKRAINE DID SOMETHING TO
DEMONSTRATE A SERIOUS INTENTION
TO FIGHT CORRUPTION AND
SPECIFICALLY ADDRESSING BURISMA
AND
THE 2016, THEN THE HOLD ON
MILITARY AID WILL
BE LIFTED. THERE WAS A SEPTEMBER
1st MEETING WITH PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY IN WARSAW.
UNFORTUNATELY, PRESIDENT TRUMP'S
ATTENDANCE AT THE WARSAW MEETING
WAS CANCELED DO TO HURRICANE
DORIAN. VICE PRESIDENT
PENCE ATTEMPTED ATTENDED
INSTEAD. I MENTIONED VICE
PRESIDENT PENCE BEFORE THE
MEETINGS AND THAT I HAD CONCERNS
THAT THE DELAY IN AID HAD BECOME
TIED TO THE ISSUE OF
INVESTIGATION. I RECALL
MENTIONING THAT BEFORE THE
ZELENSKY MEETING.  DURING THE
ACTUAL MEETING, PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY RAISED THE ISSUE OF
SECURITY ASSISTANCE RECTALLY
WITH THE VICE PRESIDENT PENCE
AND THE VICE PRESIDENT SAID HE
WOULD SPEAK TO PRESIDENT TRUMP
ABOUT IT. BASED ON MY PREVIOUS
COMMUNICATION WITH SECRETARY
POMPEO, I FELT COMFORTABLE
SHARING MY CONCERNS WITH MR.
YERMAK.  IT WAS A VERY, VERY
BRIEF PULL ASIDE CONVERSATION
THAT HAPPENED WITHIN
A FEW SECONDS. I TOLD MR. YERMAK
THEY BELIEVED THE RESUMPTION OF
U.S. AID  WOULD LIKELY NOT OCCUR
UNTIL UKRAINE TOOK SOME KIND OF
ACTION ON THE PUBLIC STATEMENT,
THAT WE HAVE BEEN DISCUSSING FOR
MANY WEEKS. AS MY OTHER STATE
PERMIT COLLEAGUES HAVE TESTIFIED
THIS SECURITY AID WAS CRITICAL
TO UKRAINE'S DEFENSE SHOULD NOT
HAVE BEEN DELAYED. I EXPRESSED
THIS VIEW TOO MANY DURING THIS
PERIOD BUT MY GOAL AT THE TIME
WAS TO DO WHAT WAS NECESSARY TO
GET THE AID RELIEF TO BREAK
THE LOGJAM. I BELIEVED THE
PUBLIC STATEMENT WE HAVE BEEN
DISCUSSING FOR WEEKS WAS
ESSENTIAL TO ADVANCING THAT
GOAL. YOU KNOW, I REALLY REGRET
THAT THE UKRAINIANS WERE PLACED
IN THAT PREDICAMENT. BUT I DO
NOT REGRET DOING WHAT I COULD TO
TRY TO BREAK THE LOGJAM AND
SOLVE
THE PROBLEMS. I MENTIONED AT THE
OUTSET THAT THROUGHOUT THESE
EVENTS WE KEPT STATE DEPARTMENT
LEADERSHIP AND OTHERS APPRISED
OF WHAT WE WERE DOING. THE STATE
DEPARTMENT WAS FULLY INVOLVED IN
OUR EFFORTS AND WAS AWARE THAT A
COMMITMENT TO INVESTIGATIONS WAS
AMONG THE ISSUES WE WERE
PURSUING. TO PROVIDE JUST TWO
EXAMPLES. ON JUNE 5th, THE DAY
AFTER THE U.S.-EU MISSION POSTED
OUR INDEPENDENCE DAY, WE DID A
MONTH EARLY, PHILIP REEKER SENT
AN EMAIL TO ME, TO SECRETARY
PERRY AND OTHERS FORWARDING SOME
POSITIVE
MEDIA COVERAGE OF PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY'S ATTENDANCE AT OUR
EVENT. HE WROTE AND I
QUOTE "THIS  HEADLINE
UNDERSCORES THE IMPORTANCE AND
TIMELINESS OF ZELENSKY'S VISIT
TO BRUSSELS  AND THE CRITICAL,
AND THE CRITICAL, PERHAPS
HISTORIC ROLE OF THE DINNER AND
ENGAGEMENT
GORDON COORDINATED. THANK YOU
FOR YOUR PARTICIPATION AND
DEDICATION OF THIS EFFORT."
MONTHS LATER ON SEPTEMBER 3rd I
SENT SECRETARY POMPEO
AN EMAIL TO EXPRESS MY
APPRECIATION FOR HIS JOINING A
SERIES OF MEETINGS IN BRUSSELS
FOLLOWING THE WARSAW TRIP. I
WROTE, MIKE, THANKS FOR
SCHLEPPING IT TO EUROPE I THINK
IT WAS REALLY IMPORTANT AND THE
CHEMISTRY SEEMS PROMISING REALLY
APPRECIATE IT. SECRETARY POMPEO
REPLIED THE NEXT DAY ON
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 4th "ALL
GOOD, YOU ARE DOING GREAT WORK
KEEP BANGING AWAY. STATE
DEPARTMENT LEADERSHIP EXPRESSED
TOTAL SUPPORT FOR OUR EFFORTS TO
ENGAGE THE NEW UKRAINIAN
ADMINISTRATION. LOOK AT NEVER
DOUBTED THE STRATEGIC VALUE OF
STRENGTHENING OUR ALLIANCE WITH
UKRAINE. AND, AT
ALL TIMES, AT ALL TIMES OUR
EFFORTS WERE IN GOOD FAITH AND
FULLY TRANSPARENT TO THOSE TEST
WITH OVERSEEING THEM. OUR
EFFORTS WERE REPORTED
AND APPROVED BUT NOT ONCE DO I
RECALL ENCOUNTERING AN
OBJECTION. IT REMAINS AN HONOR
TO SERVE THE PEOPLE OF THE
UNITED STATES AS THE UNITED
STATES AMBASSADOR TO THE
EUROPEAN UNION I LOOK FORWARD TO
ANSWERING THE COMMITTEE'S
QUESTIONS,
THANK YOU.
>> WILL NOW PROCEED TO THE FIRST
ROUND OF QUESTIONS AS DETAILED
IN
THE MEMO, THERE WILL BE 45
MINUTES OF QUESTIONS CONDUCTED
BY THE CHAIRMAN OR MAJORITY
COUNSEL FOLLOWED BY 45 MINUTES
FOR THE RANKING MEMBER OR
MINORITY COUNSEL. FOLLOWING THAT
UNLESS I SPECIFY ADDITIONAL TIME
WILL PROCEED UNDERNEATH A FIVE
MINUTE RULE AND EVERY MEMBER
WILL HAVE A CHANCE TO
ASK QUESTIONS. I RECOGNIZE
MYSELF OF MAJORITY COUNSEL FOR
THE FIRST ROUND
OF QUESTIONS. MR. SONDLAND,
THERE IS A LOT OF NEW MATERIAL
IN YOUR OPENING STATEMENT  TO
GET THROUGH. BUT I WANT TO START
WITH A FEW TOPLINE QUESTIONS
BEFORE PASSING IT OVER TO MR.
GOLDMAN. IN YOUR DEPOSITION YOU
TESTIFIED YOU FOUND YOURSELF ON
A CONTINUUM THAT BECAME MORE
INSIDIOUS OVER TIME. CAN YOU
DESCRIBE WHAT YOU MEAN BY THIS
CONTINUUM OF INSIDIOUS NESTS?
>> MR. CHAIRMAN, WHEN WE LEFT
THE OVAL OFFICE I BELIEVE ON MAY
23rd, THE REQUEST WAS VERY
GENERIC FOR AN INVESTIGATION OF
CORRUPTION AND A VERY VANILLA
SENSE DEALING WITH SOME OF THE
OLIGARCH PROBLEMS IN THE UKRAINE
WHICH ARE LONG-STANDING
PROBLEMS. AS TIME
WENT ON, MORE SPECIFIC ITEMS GOT
ADDED TO THE MENU, INCLUDING THE
BURISMA AND
2016 ELECTION MEDDLING,
SPECIFICALLY THE DNC SERVER AND,
OVER
THIS CONTINUUM A BECAME MORE AND
MORE DIFFICULT TO SECURE THE
WHITE HOUSE MEETING BECAUSE MORE
CONDITIONS WERE BEING PLACED ON
THE WHITE HOUSE MEETING.
>> OF COURSE ON JULY 25th,
ALTHOUGH YOU WERE NOT PRIVY TO
THE CALL, ANOTHER CONDITION WAS
ADDED.  THAT BEING THE
INVESTIGATION OF THE BIDENS.
>> I WAS NOT PRIVY TO THE CALL
AND I DID NOT KNOW THE CONDITION
OF INVESTIGATING THE BIDENS AS A
CONDITION.
>> YOU SAW THAT ON THE CALL
RECORD?
>> IT WAS NOT IN ANY RECORD
I RECEIVED.
>> BUT WHEN YOU DID?
>> YES, I SAW THAT IN SEPTEMBER.
>> ON THIS CONTINUUM, THE
BEGINNING BEGINS ON MAY 23rd
WHEN THE PRESIDENT INSTRUCTS YOU
TO TALK TO RUDY?
>> CORRECT.
>> YOU UNDERSTOOD THAT AS A
DIRECTION BY THE PRESIDENT THAT
YOU NEED TO SATISFY THE CONCERNS
OF RUDY GIULIANI WOULD EXPRESS
TO YOU WITH THE PRESIDENT WANTED
TO UKRAINE?
>> NOT JUST ME BUT THE ENTIRE
GROUP.
>> IN YOUR OPENING STATEMENT YOU
CONFIRMED THERE WAS A QUID PRO
QUO BETWEEN THE WHITE HOUSE
MEETINGS AND THE INVESTIGATIONS
INTO BURISMA  AND THE ELECTION
THAT GIULIANI WAS PUBLICLY
PROMOTING?
>> CORRECT.
>> THE FACT YOU SAY OTHER SENIOR
OFFICIALS IN THE STATE
DEPARTMENT AND THE CHIEFS OF
STAFF'S OFFICE, INCLUDING MICK
MULVANEY, SECRETARY POMPEO WERE
AWARE OF THIS QUID PRO QUO THAT,
IN ORDER TO GET THE WHITE HOUSE
MEETING THERE WOULD HAVE TO BE
THESE INVESTIGATIONS THE
PRESIDENT WANTED?
>> CORRECT.
>> THOSE, AGAIN, OUR
INVESTIGATIONS INTO 2016,
BURISMA  AND THE BIDENS
>> BURISMA, THE BIDENS DID NOT
COME
UP.  TODAY I KNOW EXACTLY WHAT
IT MEANS, I DID NOT KNOW AT
THE TIME.
>> THEN ON JULY 26, YOU CONFIRM
YOU DID INDEED HAVE THE
CONVERSATION WITH PRESIDENT
TRUMP OR FROM A RESTAURANT AND
HAVE THAT DAVID HOLMES TESTIFIED
ABOUT LAST WEEK TWO
>> CORRECT, AND YOU HAVE NO
REASON TO DOUBT MR. HOLMES
RECOUNTING OF YOUR CONVERSATION?
>> THE ONLY PART OF MR. HOLMES'S
RECOUNTING THAT I TAKE EXCEPTION
WITH IS I DO NOT RECALL
MENTIONING THE BIDENS.  I DID
NOT ENTER MY MIND IT WAS BURISMA
AND THE 2016 ELECTION.
>> YOU HAVE NO REASON TO BELIEVE
THAT MR. HOLMES WOULD MAKE THAT
UP? IF YOU RECALL YOU SAYING
THAT?
>> I NEVER RECALLED SAYING
THE BIDENS.
>> FOR THE REST OF MR. HOLMES
RECOLLECTION IS CONSISTENT WITH
YOUR OWN?
>> I CAN TESTIFY AS TO WHAT MR.
HOLMES MAY OR MAY NOT HAVE HEARD
THROUGH THE PHONE I DON'T KNOW
HOW HE HEARD THE CONVERSATION.
>> ARE YOU FAMILIAR WITH
HIS TESTIMONY?
>> VAGUELY YES.
>> AND THE ONLY EXCEPTION YOU
TAKE IS TO THE MENTION OF THE
NAME BIDEN?
>> CORRECT.
>> I THINK YOU SAID IN YOUR
TESTIMONY THIS MORNING THAT NOT
ONLY IS IT CORRECT THAT THE
PRESIDENT BROUGHT UP WITH YOU
INVESTIGATIONS ON THE PHONE THE
DAY AFTER THE JULY 25th CALL FOR
YOU BEEN SURPRISED HAD HE NOT
BROUGHT THAT UP?
>> WE HAD BEEN HEARING ABOUT IT
FROM RUDY AND WE PRESUMED RUDY
WAS GETTING IT FROM THE
PRESIDENT. IT SEEMED LIKE A
LOGICAL CONCLUSION.
>> HOLMES ALSO TESTIFIED YOU
TOLD HIM THAT PRESIDENT TRUMP
DOESN'T CARE ABOUT UKRAINE BUT
ONLY BIG STUFF THAT RELATES TO
HIM PERSONALLY. I TAKE IT FROM
YOUR COMMENT YOU DON'T DISPUTE
THAT PART OF THE CONVERSATION?
>> WELL, HE MADE THAT CLEAR IN
THE MAY 23rd MEETING THAT HE WAS
NOT PARTICULARLY FOND OF UKRAINE
AND WE HAD A LOT OF HEAVY
LIFTING TO DO TO GET HIM TO
ENGAGE.
>> YOU DON'T DISPUTE THAT PART
OF MR. HOLMES RECOLLECTION?
>> NO.
>> IN AUGUST WHEN HE WORKED WITH
A RUDY GIULIANI AND A TOP
UKRAINIAN AID TO DRAFT A
STATEMENT FOR PRESIDENT ZELENSKY
TO ISSUE REGARDING
INVESTIGATIONS INTO BURISMA ,
YOU UNDERSTOOD THAT WAS REQUIRED
BY PRESIDENT TRUMP BEFORE HE
WOULD GRANT THE WHITE HOUSE
MEETING TO PRESIDENT ZELENSKY?
>> THAT IS CORRECT.
>> THE UKRAINIANS UNDERSTOOD
THAT AS WELL?
>> I BELIEVE
THEY DID.! YOU INFORMED
SECRETARY POMPEO BUT THAT
STATEMENT AS WELL?
>> I DID.
>> LATER IN AUGUST
YOU TOLD SECRETARY POMPEO THAT
ZELENSKY WOULD BE PREPARED TO
TELL PRESIDENT TRUMP ABOUT HIS
NEW JUSTICE OFFICIALS  WOULD BE
ABLE TO ANNOUNCE MATTERS OF
INTEREST TO THE PRESIDENT WHICH
COULD BREAK THE LOGJAM. WHEN YOU
SAY MATTERS OF INTEREST YOU MADE
THE INVESTIGATIONS THAT
PRESIDENT TRUMP WANTED, IS THAT
CORRECT?
>> RIGHT.
>> THAT INVOLVED 2016 AND
BURISMA OR THE BIDENS?
>> 2016 AND
BURISMA.
>> WHEN YOU ARE TALKING HERE
ABOUT BREAKING THE LOGJAM,
LEAVING THE LOGJAM OVER THE
SECURITY SYSTEMS?? I WAS TALKING
LOGJAM GENERICALLY BECAUSE
NOTHING WAS MOVING.
>> THAT INCLUDED SECURITY
SYSTEMS, DID IT NOT?
>> CORRECT.
>> BASED ON THE CONTEXT OF THE
EMAIL THAT WAS NOT THE FIRST
TIME YOU HAD DISCUSSED THESE
INVESTIGATIONS WITH SECRETARY
POMPEO WAS IT?
>>
NO.
>> HE WAS AWARE OF THE
CONNECTIONS YOU ARE MAKING
BETWEEN THE INVESTIGATIONS AND
THE WHITE HOUSE MEETING AND
SECURITY ASSISTANCE?
>> YES.
>> DID HE EVER TAKE ISSUE WITH
YOU AND SAY THAT CONNECTION IS
NOT THERE OR YOU ARE WRONG?
>> NOT THAT I RECALL.
>> YOU MENTIONED THAT YOU'VE
ALSO HAD A
CONVERSATION WITH VICE PRESIDENT
PENCE BEFORE HIS MEETING WITH
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY IN WARSAW
AND THAT YOU RAISED THE CONCERN
YOU HAD AS WELL THAT THE
SECURITY ASSISTANCE WAS BEING
WITHHELD BECAUSE OF THE
PRESIDENT'S DESIRE TO GET A
COMMITMENT FROM ZELENSKY TO  GO
AFTER THESE
CRITICAL INVESTIGATIONS WHAT DID
YOU SAY?
>> I WAS IN A BRIEFING WITH
SEVERAL PEOPLE. THEN ON
EVERYTHING IS STALLED UNTIL THE
STATEMENT GETS MADE. SOMETHING
TO THAT EFFECT, AND THAT IS WHAT
I BELIEVE TO BE THE CASE BASED
ON, YOU KNOW, THE WORK THAT THE
THREE OF US HAD BEEN DOING.
VOLKER, PERRY, AND MYSELF.  THE
VICE PRESIDENT NODDED THAT HE
HEARD WHAT I SAID AND THAT WAS
PRETTY MUCH IT, AS I RECALL.
>> AND, YOU UNDERSTOOD THE
UKRAINIANS WERE GOING TO RAISE
THE SECURITY ASSISTANCE WITH THE
VICE PRESIDENT AT THIS MEETING.
>> I DO NOT KNOW WHAT THEY WOULD
RAISE BUT THEY IN FACT DID
RAISE IT.
>> IT WAS PUBLIC BY THAT POINT
THERE WAS A HOLD ON THE SECURITY
SYSTEMS?
>> I DID NOT KNOW WHAT THEY WERE
GOING TO RAISE, I DO NOT GET A
PRE-BRIEF.
>> IN A THEY WERE CONCERNED
ABOUT THE HOLD ON SECURITY
ASSISTANCE? ANYONE TO HELP. THE
VICE PRESIDENT FOR THE MEETING
BY LETTING HIM KNOW WHAT YOU
THOUGHT WAS RESPONSIBLE FOR THE
HOLD ON THE SECURITY SYSTEMS TWO
>> THAT IS FAIR.
>> D RECALL ANYTHING ELSE THE
VICE PRESIDENT SAID HE SAID
NODDING
HIS HEAD?
>> NO, I DON'T HAVE A READOUT OF
THAT MEETING SO I CAN'T REMEMBER
ANYTHING ELSE.
>> WAS IMMEDIATELY AFTER THIS
MEETING THAT YOU WENT TO SPEAK
WITH YERMAK AND YOU TOLD HIM
SIMILARLY THAT IN ORDER TO
RELEASE THE MILITARY ASSISTANCE
THEY WOULD HAVE TO PUBLICLY
ANNOUNCE THESE INVESTIGATIONS?
>> MUCH HAS BEEN MADE OF THAT
MEETING AND IT WASN'T REALLY A
MEETING. EVERYONE GOT UP AFTER
THE BILATERAL MEETING BETWEEN
PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY AND VICE PRESIDENT
PENCE AND PEOPLE DO WHAT THEY
NORMALLY DO THEY GET UP, MILL
AROUND, SHAKE HANDS  AND I DON'T
KNOW IF I CAME OVER TO YERMAK OR
HE CAME OVER TO ME  AND HE SAID
WHAT'S GOING ON HERE AND I SAID
I DON'T KNOW, IT MIGHT ALL BE
TIED TOGETHER I HAD NO IDEA, I
WAS PRESUMING THAT IT WAS BLUES
A VERY SHORT CONVERSATION
>> IN
THE CONVERSATION YOU INFORMED
MR. GERLACH THAT THEY WOULD NEED
TO ANNOUNCE THESE INVESTIGATIONS
IN ORDER TO GET THE
AID?
>> ESTHER YERMAK WAS WORKING ON
THE INVESTIGATION OR THE
STATEMENT ABOUT THE
INVESTIGATION  AND YOU
>> AND YOU CONFIRMED FOR HIM HE
NEEDS TO GET IT DONE?
>>
LIKELY
DID.
>> LIVE ALSO RELATED THE
CONVERSATION YOU HAD WITH THE
PRESENT FOLLOWING THE WARSAW
MEETING IN WHICH THE PRESIDENT
RELAYED TO YOU THAT THERE WAS NO
QUID PRO QUO, BUT NEVERTHELESS,
UNLESS ZELENSKY WENT TO THE
MICROPHONE  AND ANNOUNCED
THESE INVESTIGATIONS, THEY WOULD
BE A STALEMATE OVER THE AID, IS
THAT CORRECT.
>> THAT IS CORRECT.
>> THAT IS
AN ACCURATE DESCRIPTION OF YOUR
CONVERSATION WITH THE PRESIDENT?
>> THAT EMAIL WAS NOT ARTFULLY
WRITTEN, I WAS THE FIRST TO
ADMIT. WHEN I WAS TRYING TO
CONVEY TO AMBASSADOR TAYLOR
AFTER HIS FRANTIC EMAILS TO ME
AND TO OTHERS ABOUT THE SECURITY
ASSISTANCE, WHICH AGREED WITH
HIM I THOUGHT IT WAS A VERY BAD
IDEA TO HOLD THAT MONEY. I
FINALLY CALLED THE PRESIDENT, I
BELIEVE IT WAS ON THE NINTH OF
SEPTEMBER. I CANNOT FIND THE
RECORDS AND THEY WILL PROVIDE
THEM
TO ME. BUT I BELIEVE I JUST
ASKED HIM AN OPEN ENDED
QUESTION, WHAT DO YOU WANT FROM
UKRAINE I KEEP HEARING ALL THE
DIFFERENT IDEAS AND THEORIES AND
THIS AND THAT, WHAT DO YOU WANT?
IT WAS A VERY SHORT, ABRUPT
CONVERSATION. HE WAS NOT IN A
GOOD MOOD. AND HE JUST SAID I
WANT NOTHING, I WANT NOTHING I
WANT NO QUID PRO QUO. TELL
ZELENSKY TO DO THE RIGHT THING,
SOMETHING TO THAT EFFECT.  SO I
TYPED OUT A TEXT TO AMBASSADOR
TAYLOR AND MY REASON FOR TELLING
HIM THIS WAS NOT TO DEFEND WHAT
THE PRESIDENT WAS SAYING. NOT
TO OPINE ON WHETHER THE
PRESIDENT WAS BEING TRUTHFUL OR
UNTRUTHFUL. BUT SIMPLY TO RELAY
I GOT AS FAR AS I CAN GO. THIS
IS THE FINAL WORD I HEARD FROM
THE PRESIDENT OF THE
UNITED STATES. IF YOU'RE STILL
CONCERNED, IF YOU AND AMBASSADOR
TAYLOR IS STILL CONCERNED PLEASE
GET A HOLD OF THE SECRETARY,
MAYBE HE CAN HELP.
>> I'M NOT ASKING ABOUT YOUR
TEXT MESSAGE I'M ASKING ABOUT
YOUR CONVERSATIONS WITH MR.
MORRISON AND AMBASSADOR TAYLOR
AFTER YOU SPOKE WITH THE
PRESIDENT ON THAT CALL FOR A
DIFFERENT CALL.
>> I'M CONFUSED, WHICH
CONVERSATIONS WITH MR. MORRISON
AND MR. TAYLOR?
>> ESTHER MORRISON TESTIFIED
ABOUT A CONVERSATION YOU HAD
WITH THE PRESIDENT IN WHICH THE
PRESIDENT TOLD YOU KNOW QUID PRO
QUO. BUT, PRESIDENT ZELENSKY
MUST GO TO A MICROPHONE AND
ANNOUNCED THESE INVESTIGATIONS
AND THAT HE SHOULD WANT TO.
SIMILARLY YOU TOLD IN BASSETT OR
TAYLOR THAT WHILE THE PRESIDENT
SAID NO QUID PRO QUO UNLESS
ZELENSKY ANNOUNCED THESE
INVESTIGATIONS,  THEY WOULD BE
EIGHT A STALEMATE, PRESUMABLY
OVER THE COUNTRY ASSISTANCE, DO
YOU HAVE ANY REASON
TO QUESTION THOSE CONVERSATIONS
THAT MR. MORRISON AND AMBASSADOR
TAYLOR TOOK NOTES ABOUT?
>> I THINK IT IS TIED TO MY
TEXT. I THINK I SAID SOMETHING
TO THE EFFECT THAT YOU WANT
ZELENSKY TO DO
WHAT  TRANSPARENCY, ETC., ETC.
WHICH WAS MY CLUMSY WAY OF
SAYING HE WANTED THESE
ANNOUNCEMENTS TO BE MADE.
>> AGAIN NOT ASKING ABOUT THE
TEXT MESSAGE, ASKING ABOUT WHAT
YOU RELAYED TO AMBASSADOR TAYLOR
AND MR. MORRISON ABOUT YOUR
CONVERSATION WITH THE PRESIDENT.
YOU HAVE ANY REASON TO QUESTION
THE RECOLLECTION OF WHAT YOU
TOLD THEM?
>> ALL I CAN SAY IS THAT I
EXPRESSED WHAT I TOLD HER WHAT
THE PRESIDENT TOLD ME IN
THIS TEXT. IF I RELATE ANYTHING
OTHER THAN IN THE TEXT I DON'T
RECALL.
>> YOU DON'T RECALL?
>> I DON'T RECALL.
>> YOU HAVE NO REASON TO
QUESTION AMBASSADOR TAYLOR MR.
MORRISON AND WHAT THEY WROTE IN
THEIR NOTES ABOUT YOUR
CONVERSATION
WITH THEM?
>> COULD YOU KINDLY REPEAT WHAT
THEY WROTE?
>> ALL HAVE MR. GOLDMAN GO
THROUGH.
>> THAT WOULD
BE GREAT.
>> ALL GET TO THE BOTTOM LINE,
YOU
TESTIFIED THAT THE WHITE HOUSE
MEETING THE PRESENT ZELENSKY
DESPERATELY WANTED, AND THAT WAS
VERY IMPORTANT  TO PRESENT
ZELENSKY  WAS THAT NOT?
>> ABSOLUTELY.
>> YOU TESTIFIED THAT MEETING
WAS A QUID PRO QUO OR, WHAT THE
PRESIDENT WANTED INTO THESE
INVESTIGATIONS? AND THAT
EVERYBODY KNEW IT?
>> CORRECT.
>> NOW, THAT WHITE HOUSE MEETING
WAS GOING TO BE AN OFFICIAL
MEETING BETWEEN THE TWO
PRESIDENTS, CORRECT?
>> PRESUMABLY.
>> WOULD BE AN OVAL OFFICE
MEETING?
>> WORKING MEETING.
>> AN OFFICIAL AX?
>> GAL.
>> IN ORDER TO PERFORM THAT
OFFICIAL ACT DONALD TRUMP WANTED
THESE TWO INVESTIGATIONS THAT
WOULD HELP HIS REELECTION
CAMPAIGN, CORRECT?
>> I CAN'T CHARACTERIZE WHY HE
WANTED THEM ALL I CAN TELL YOU
IS THIS IS WHAT WE HEARD FROM
MR. GIULIANI.
>> YOU HAD TO GET THOSE TWO
INVESTIGATIONS IF THAT OFFICIAL
ACT WAS GOING TO TAKE
PLACE, CORRECT?
>> HE HAD TO ANNOUNCE THE
INVESTIGATIONS HE DID NOT HAVE
TO DO THEM, AS I UNDERSTOOD.
>> OKAY, PRESIDENT ZELENSKY HAD
TO ANNOUNCE TWO INVESTIGATIONS
THE PRESIDENT WANTED?
>> CORRECT.
>> AND THOSE WERE OF GREAT VALUE
TO THE PRESIDENT, HE WAS QUITE
INSISTENT UPON THEM?
>> I DON'T WANT TO CHARACTERIZE
WHETHER THEY WERE VALUED OR NOT
VALUED AGAIN, THROUGH MR.
GIULIANI WE WERE LED TO BELIEVE
THAT THAT IS WHAT
HE WANTED.
>> YOU SAID MR. GIULIANI WAS
ACTING AT THE PRESIDENT'S
DEMAND?
>> WHEN THE PRESIDENT SAYS TALK
TO MY PERSONAL LAWYER MR.
GIULIANI WE TALKED TO HIM.
>> THAT OFFICIAL ACT OF THAT
MEETING WAS BEING CONDITIONED ON
THE PERFORMANCE OF THESE THINGS
THE PRESIDENT WANTED AS
EXPRESSED BOTH DIRECTLY AND
THROUGH HIS LAWYER, RUDY
GIULIANI?
>> AS EXPRESSED THROUGH RUDY
GIULIANI.
>> YOU'VE ALSO TESTIFIED THAT
YOUR UNDERSTANDING, IT BECAME
YOUR CLEAR UNDERSTANDING THAT
THE MILITARY SYSTEMS WAS ALSO
BEING WITHHELD PENDING ZELENSKY
ANNOUNCING THESE
INVESTIGATIONS?
>> THAT WAS MY PERSONAL
PRESUMPTION BASED ON THE FACT AT
THE TIME. NOTHING WAS MOVING.
>>
IN FACT, YOU HAD A DISCUSSION IN
COMMUNICATION WITH THE SECRETARY
OF STATE FOR YOU SAID THE LOGJAM
OVER AID COULD BE LIFTED IF
ZELENSKY ANNOUNCED THESE
INVESTIGATIONS?
>> I DON'T RECALL SAYING THE
LOGJAM OVER AID, I RECALL THE
LOGJAM?
>> THAT IS WHAT YOU MEANT, RIGHT
AMBASSADOR?
>> I MEANT WHATEVER WAS HOLDING
UP
THE MEETING, WHATEVER WAS
HOLDING UP OUR DEAL WITH UKRAINE
I WAS TRYING TO BREAK. AGAIN, I
WAS PRESUMING --
>> HERE IS WHAT YOU SAID IN YOUR
TESTIMONY. "MICHAEL AT THE TIME
WAS TO DO WHAT WAS NECESSARY TO
GET THE AID RELEASED TO BREAK
THE LOGJAM. THAT IS STILL YOUR
TESTIMONY RIGHT?
>> YEAH.
>> SO THE
MILITARY AID IS ALSO AN OFFICIAL
AX, AM I RIGHT?
>> YES.
>> THIS
IS NOT PRESIDENT TRUMP'S
PERSONAL BANK ACCOUNT, THIS IS
400 MILLION OF U.S. TAXPAYER
MONEY? IS IT NOT?
>> ABSOLUTELY.
>> THERE WAS A LOGJAM IN WHICH
THE PRESIDENT WOULD NOT WRITE
THE U.S. CHECK YOU
BELIEVED UNTIL UKRAINE ANNOUNCED
THESE TWO INVESTIGATIONS THE
PRESIDENT WANTED?
>> THAT WAS MY BELIEF.
>> THANK YOU MR. CHAIRMAN. IN
YOUR OPENING STATEMENT
AMBASSADOR SONDLAND,  YOU
DETAILED THE BENEFITS THAT YOU
HAVE
GAINED FROM OBTAINING SOME
ADDITIONAL DOCUMENTS OVER THE
PAST FEW WEEKS. IS THAT RIGHT?
>> IN TERMS OF REFRESHING THE
RECOLLECTION.
>> REVIEWING THESE DOCUMENTS HAS
HELPED YOU TO REMEMBER THE
EVENTS THAT WE ARE ASKING ABOUT,
CORRECT?
>> CORRECT.
>> YOU ACKNOWLEDGE OF COURSE
THAT WOULD YOU PLACE A DOCUMENT
ANY DATE AND A CONTEXT IT HELPS
TO JOG YOUR MEMORY?
>> THAT IS CORRECT.! YOU WOULD
AGREE THAT FOR PEOPLE, UNLIKE
YOURSELF, WHO TAKE NOTES THAT
THAT IS VERY HELPFUL TO THEIR
OWN RECOLLECTION OF EVENTS?
RIGHT?
>> I THINK YOU ASKED HER
QUESTION BACKWARDS ARE YOU
SAYING PEOPLE WHO TAKE NOTES IT
IS HELPFUL TO HAVE THOSE
DOCUMENTS OR PEOPLE WHO DON'T
TAKE NOTES?
>> NO, YOU ARE NOT A NOTETAKER
RIGHT?
>> NOT A NOTETAKER NEVER HAVE
BEEN.
>> YOU AGREE THAT PEOPLE WHO DO
TAKE CONTEMPORANEOUS NOTES
GENERALLY ARE MORE ABLE TO
REMEMBER THINGS THE PEOPLE WHO
DON'T?
>>
SOME, YES.
>> THERE ARE ADDITIONAL
DOCUMENTS THAT YOU HAVE BEEN
UNABLE TO OBTAIN IS THAT RIGHT?
>> THAT IS CORRECT.
>> I THINK YOU SAID IN YOUR
OPENING STATEMENT THAT THE STATE
DEPARTMENT PREVENTED YOU AND
YOUR STAFF FROM TRYING TO GATHER
MORE DOCUMENTS, IS THAT CORRECT?
>> CERTAIN DOCUMENTS.
>> WHICH DOCUMENTS?
>> DOCUMENTS I DO NOT HAVE
IMMEDIATE ACCESS TO.
>> WHO AT THE STATE DEPARTMENT
PREVENTED YOU FROM DOING THAT?
>> YOU HAVE TO ASK MY COUNSEL.
>> BASED ON THE ADDITIONAL
MEMORY YOU HAVE GAINED OVER THE
PAST FEW WEEKS FROM READING THE
TESTIMONY OF OTHERS BASED ON
THEIR NOTES AND REVIEWING YOUR
OWN DOCUMENTS, YOU HAVE
REMEMBERED A LOT
MORE THAN YOU DID WHEN YOU WERE
DEPOSED IS THAT RIGHT?
>> THAT IS CORRECT.
>> ONE OF THE THINGS YOU NOW
REMEMBER IS THE DISCUSSION YOU
HAD WITH PRESIDENT TRUMP ON JULY
26 AND THAT RESTAURANT IN KIEV.
>> WERE TRIGGERED MY MEMORY
IS SOMEONE'S REFERENCE TO A$AP
ROCKY WHICH WAS THE PRIMARY
PURPOSE OF THE PHONE CALL.
>> THAT IS ONE WAY MEMORY WORKS
ISN'T IT? YOU WERE SITTING IN A
RESTAURANT WITH DAVID HOLMES IN
CARE OF KIEV HAVING  LUNCH?
>> I THINK I TOOK THE WHOLE TEAM
OUT.
>> IT WAS A ONE-ON-ONE MEETING
WITH ANDRIY YERMAK?
>> AGAIN, TRYING TO RECONSTRUCT
A VERY
BUSY DAY BUT IF SOMEONE SAID I
HAD A MEETING AND I WENT TO THE
MEETING, I WILL NOT DISPUTE
THAT. TWO PARTICULARLY IF THAT
PERSON TOOK NOTES?
>> CORRECT.
>> OR SIT OUTSIDE
THE DOOR WHEN YOU DID NOT LET
THEM IN?
>> I HAVE NO CONTROL WHO GOES
OVER INTO A MEETING IN UKRAINE,
THAT WAS THE
UKRAINIANS.
>> YOU ALSO MET WITH PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY AMONG OTHERS THAT DAY
CORRECT?
>> THAT IS CORRECT.
>> Q CALLED PRESIDENT TRUMP FROM
YOUR CELL PHONE FROM THE
RESTAURANT?
>>
THAT'S RIGHT.
>> THIS WAS NOT A SECURE LINE?
>> NO, IT WAS AN OPEN LINE.
>> DID YOU WORRY THAT A FOREIGN
GOVERNMENT TO BE LISTENING TO
YOUR
PHONE CALL?
>> I HAVE UNCLASSIFIED
CONVERSATIONS ALL THE TIME FROM
LANDMINES THAT ARE UNSECURED AND
CELL PHONES. IF THE OBJECT IS
NOT CLASSIFIED AND IT IS UP TO
THE PRESIDENT TO DECIDE WHAT IS
CLASSIFIED AND NOT CLASSIFIED,
HE WAS AWARE IT WAS AN OPEN LINE
AS WELL.
>> YOU DON'T RECALL THE
SPECIFICS OF HOLDING YOUR PHONE
FAR AWAY FROM YOUR EAR AS MR.
HOLMES TESTIFIED BUT, YOU HAVE
NO REASON TO QUESTION HIS
RECOLLECTION OF THAT DO YOU?
>> IT SEEMS A LITTLE STRANGE
THAT I WOULD HOLD MY PHONE HERE
I PROBABLY HAD MY PHONE CLOSE TO
MY EAR AND HE CLAIMS TO HAVE
OVERHEARD PART OF THE
CONVERSATION AND I WILL NOT
DISPUTE WHAT HE DID OR DID NOT
HEAR.
>> ALSO TESTIFIED THAT YOU
CONFIRMED IT TO PRESIDENT TRUMP
THAT YOU WERE IN UKRAINE AT THE
TIME AND THAT PRESIDENT ZELENSKY
"LOVES
YOUR ASS." DO YOU RECALL SAYING
THAT?
>> IT SOUNDS LIKE SOMETHING I
WOULD SAY. [ LAUGHTER ] THAT IS
HOW PRESIDENT TRUMP AND I
COMMUNICATE A LOT OF FOUR LETTER
WORDS, IN THIS CASE THREE
LETTERS. [ LAUGHTER
]
>> HOLMES THEN SAID HE HEARD
PRESIDENT TRUMP ASKED "IS  HE,
MEANING ZELENSKY,  GOING TO DO
THE INVESTIGATION? TO WHICH
HE REPLIED? " HE IS GOING TO DO
IT, AND THAT HE AS IT THAT
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY WILL DO
ANYTHING THAT YOU, MEETING
PRESIDENT TRUMP, ASK HIM TO." DO
YOU RECALL THAT?
>> I PROBABLY SAID SOMETHING TO
THAT EFFECT BECAUSE I REMEMBER
THE MEETING THAT PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY
WAS VERY SOLICITOUS AS I GET
WORD, HE WAS JUST VERY WILLING
TO WORK WITH THE UNITED STATES
AND, WAS BEING VERY AMICABLE
AND, SO, PUTTING IT IN TRUMP'S
SPEAK BY SAYING HE LOVES
YOUR ASS HE WILL DO WHATEVER YOU
WANT MEANS THAT HE WILL REALLY
WORK WITH US ON A WHOLE HOST OF
ISSUES.
>> WAS NOT ONLY WILLING, HE WAS
VERY EAGER RIGHT?
>> THAT'S FAIR.
>> UKRAINE DEPENDS ON THE UNITED
STATES AS ITS MOST SIGNIFICANT
ALLY, ISN'T THAT CORRECT?
>> ONE OF ITS MOST, ABSOLUTELY.
>> JUST SO
WE UNDERSTAND, YOU WERE IN CARE
OF KIEV THE DAY AFTER PRESIDENT
TRUMP  SPOKE TO PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY AND YOU NOW KNOW FROM
READING THE CALL RECORD THAT HE
REQUESTED A FAVOR FOR PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY TO DO INVESTIGATIONS
RELATED TO THE BIDENS  AND THE
2016 ELECTION, RIGHT?
>> I DO NOW KNOW THAT, YES.
>> YOU MET WITH PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY AND HIS AIDES ON THE
DAY AFTER THAT PHONE CALL AND
THEN YOU HAD A PHONE CALL WITH
PRESIDENT TRUMP FROM YOUR CELL
PHONE FROM A RESTAURANT TERRACE
AND HE ASKED WHETHER PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY WILL DO THE
INVESTIGATIONS? AND HE RESPONDED
THAT HE IS GOING TO DO THEM OR
IT. AND THAT PRESIDENT ZELENSKY
WILL DO ANYTHING YOU ASK HIM TO
DO. IS THAT AN ACCURATE
RECITATION OF WHAT
HAPPENED THERE?
>> I DON'T EVER MY
EXACT RESPONSE. YOU HAVE NO
REASON TO DISPUTE MR. HOLMES
RECOLLECTION? CORRECT?
>> I WON'T DISPUTE IT BUT AGAIN,
I DON'T RECALL.
>> AFTER YOU HUNG UP WITH THE
PRESIDENT MR. HOLMES TESTIFIED
ABOUT A CONVERSATION THAT YOU
AND HE HAD WHERE HE SAYS THAT
YOU TOLD MR. HOLMES THAT THE
PRESIDENT DOES NOT CARE ABOUT
UKRAINE BUT, THE PRESIDENT
USE THE MORE COLORFUL LANGUAGE
INCLUDING A FOUR LETTER WORD
THAT YOU JUST REFERENCE TO DO
YOU RECALL SAYING THAT TO
MR. HOLMES?
>> I DON'T RECALL MY EXACT WORDS
BUT CLEARLY
THE PRESIDENT WHERE HE MET WITH
THE OVAL OFFICE WAS NOT A BIG
FAN.
>> BUT HE WAS A BIG FAN OF THE
INVESTIGATIONS?
>> APPARENTLY SO.
>> IN FACT MR. HOLMES SAID THAT
YOU SAID THAT PRESIDENT TRUMP
ONLY CARES ABOUT THE "BIG STUFF
THAT FITS HIMSELF, IS THAT
SOMETHING THAT YOU WOULD'VE SAID
AT THE TIME?
>> I DON'T THINK I WOULD HAVE
SAID THAT. I WOULD'VE HONESTLY
SAID THAT HE WAS NOT A BIG FAN
OF THE UKRAINE AND HE WAS THE
INVESTIGATIONS WE'VE BEEN
TALKING ABOUT FOR QUITE SOME
TIME TO MOVE FORWARD IS WHAT I
WOULD'VE SAID BECAUSE THAT IS
THE FACT.
>> MR. HOLMES ALSO REMEMBERS
THAT YOU
TOLD HIM GIVING AN EXAMPLE OF
THE
BIG STUFF, THE BIDEN
INVESTIGATION THAT RUDY GIULIANI
WAS PUSHING, DO YOU RECALL THAT?
>> I DON'T I RECALL BURISMA, NOT
BIDEN.
>> DO YOU RECALL THE
INVESTIGATION THAT RUDY GIULIANI
WAS PUSHING? IS THAT SOMETHING
YOU LIKELY WOULD'VE SAID?
>> I WOULD, YES.
>> NOW, EVEN IF YOU DON'T
RECALL SPECIFICALLY SPECIFICALLY
MENTIONING THE BIDEN
INVESTIGATION TO
DAVID HOLMES WE KNOW THAT IT WAS
CERTAINLY ON PRESIDENT TRUMP'S
MIND BECAUSE JUST THE DAY BEFORE
AND HIS TRUMP WITH PRESENT
ZELENSKY  HE MENTIONS,
SPECIFICALLY THE BIDEN
INVESTIGATION. I WANT TO SHOW
YOU THAT EXHIBIT OR THAT EGGS
ARE FROM THE CALL ON
JULY 25th. EXCERPT FROM THE CALL
ON JULY 25th. WHERE THEY
SAY THAT THE OTHER THING THERE'S
A LOT OF TALK ABOUT BIDEN'S SON
AND THAT BIDEN STOP THE
PROSECUTION A LOT OF PEOPLE WANT
TO FIND OUT ABOUT THAT SO
WHATEVER YOU COULD DO WITH THE
ATTORNEY GENERAL WOULD BE GREAT.
BIDEN WENT AROUND BRAGGING THAT
HE STOPPED THE PROSECUTION SO IF
YOU CAN LOOK INTO IT, IT SOUNDS
HORRIBLE TO ME. PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY THEN RESPONDS WITH A
REFERENCE TO THE COMPANY THAT HE
IS REFERRING TO AND TWO
WITNESSES YESTERDAY SAID THAT
WHEN PRESIDENT ZELENSKY ACTUALLY
SAID THE COMPANY HE SAID
BURISMA.
SO, YOU WOULD AGREE THAT
REGARDLESS OF WHETHER YOU KNEW
ABOUT THE CONNECTION TO THE
BIDEN'S, AT THE VERY LEAST THAT
YOU NOW KNOW THAT THAT IS WHAT
PRESIDENT TRUMP WANTED AT
THE TIME THROUGH THE BURISMA
INVESTIGATION?
>> I NOW KNOW IT ALL, OF COURSE.
>> AT THIS TIME YOU WERE AWARE
OF THE PRESIDENT'S DESIRE, ALONG
WITH RUDY GIULIANI, TO DO THESE
INVESTIGATIONS, INCLUDING THE
2016 ELECTION INTERFERENCE
INVESTIGATION, IS THAT RIGHT?
>> THAT IS CORRECT.
>> YOU SAID PRESIDENT TRUMP HAD
DIRECTED YOU, YOU AND A COUPLE
OTHERS, TO TALK TO RUDY GIULIANI
AT THE OVAL OFFICE ON MAY 23rd?
IS THAT RIGHT?
>> IF WE WANTED TO GET ANYTHING
DONE WITH UKRAINE IT WAS
APPARENT TO US WE NEEDED TO TALK
TO RUDY.
>> YOU UNDERSTOOD THAT MR.
GIULIANI SPOKE FOR THE
PRESIDENT?
>> THAT IS CORRECT.
>> IN FACT, PRESIDENT TRUMP ALSO
MADE THAT CLEAR TO PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY IN THAT SAME JULY 25th
PHONE CALL.
HE SAID "MR. GIULIANI IS A
HIGHLY RESPECTED MAN, HE WAS THE
MAYOR OF NEW YORK CITY, A GREAT
PAIR AND I WOULD LIKE HIM TO
CALL YOU. I WILL ASK HIM TO CALL
YOU ALONG WITH THE ATTORNEY
GENERAL. RUDY VERY MUCH KNOWS
WHAT IS HAPPENING AND HE IS A
VERY CAPABLE GUY." AFTER THIS,
PRESIDENT TRUMP THEN MENTIONS
MR. GIULIANI TWICE MORE IN THAT
CALL. NOW, FOR MR. GIULIANI, AT
THIS POINT, YOU UNDERSTOOD THAT
IN ORDER TO GET THE WHITE HOUSE
MEETING THAT YOU WANTED
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY TO HAVE AND
THAT PRESIDENT ZELENSKY
DESPERATELY WANTED
TO HAVE, THAT UKRAINE WOULD HAVE
TO INITIATE THESE TWO
INVESTIGATIONS, IS THAT RIGHT?
>> THEY WOULD HAVE TO ANNOUNCE
THEY ARE GOING TO DO
IT.
>> BECAUSE GIULIANI AND
PRESIDENT TRUMP DID NOT CARE IF
THEY ACTUALLY DID THEM?
>> I NEVER HEARD MR. GOLDMAN
ANYONE SAY THAT THE
INVESTIGATIONS HAD TO START OR
BE COMPLETED. THE ONLY THING I
HEARD FROM MR. GIULIANI OR
OTHERWISE WAS THAT THEY HAD TO
BE ANNOUNCED IN SOME FORM AND
THAT FORM KEPT CHANGING.
>> ANNOUNCED PUBLICLY?
>> ANNOUNCED PUBLICLY.
>> YOU WILL, OF COURSE REALIZE
THERE WOULD BE BENEFITS FOR A
PUBLIC ANNOUNCEMENT AS OPPOSED
TO A
PRIVATE.
>> THEY HAD A LONG HISTORY OF
COMMITTING TO THINGS PRIVATELY
AND THEN NEVER FOLLOWING THROUGH
IS WHAT I UNDERSTOOD. PRESIDENT
TRUMP, PRESUMABLY, AGAIN
COMMUNICATED THROUGH
MR. GIULIANI, WANTED UKRAINIANS
ON RECORD, PUBLICLY, THAT THEY
WOULD DO THESE INVESTIGATIONS.
>> BUT YOU NEVER HEARD
ANYONE SAY THAT THEY REALLY
WANTED THEM TO DO THE
INVESTIGATIONS?
>> I DID NOT HEAR
EITHER WAY.
>> NOW, YOUR JULY 26 CALL WITH
THE PRESIDENT WASN'T THE ONLY
TIME HE SPOKE TO THE PRESIDENT
SURROUNDING THE UKRAINE TRIP WAS
IT?
>> I BELIEVE I SPOKE TO HIM
BEFORE
THIS CALL.
>> THAT WOULD BE JULY 25th?
>> I THINK I WAS FLYING TO
UKRAINE AND I SPOKE WITH HIM, IF
I
RECALL CORRECTLY, THIS BEFORE I
GOT ON THE PLANE.
>> DOES TWO PRIVATE TELEPHONE
CALLS WITH PRESIDENT TRUMP IN
THE SPAN OF TWO DAYS. CORRECT?
>> CORRECT.
>> YOU HAD DIRECT ACCESS TO
PRESIDENT TRUMP?
>> I HAD OCCASIONAL ACCESS WHEN
HE CHOSE TO TAKE MY CALLS.
SOMETIMES HE WOULD, SOMETIMES HE
WOULDN'T.
>> HE CERTAINLY TOOK YOUR CALL
TWICE AS IT RELATED TO UKRAINE
ON THIS DAY. ON THE MORNING OF
JULY 25th, YOU TEXTED AMBASSADOR
VOLKER,  WE CAN BRING UP THE
NEXT TEXT EXCHANGE AT 7:54 A.M.
AND YOU SAID
CALL ASAP.
AMBASSADOR VOLKER DID NOT
RESPOND TO YOU FOR ANOTHER HOUR
AND A HALF AND HE SAID HI
GORDON, GOT YOUR MESSAGE HAD A
GREAT LUNCH WITH YERMAK AND
PASTOR MESSAGE  TO HIM. HE WILL
SEE YOU TOMORROW, THINK
EVERYTHING IN PLACE. VOLKER  AN
HOUR BEFORE THAT
HAD TEXTED ANDRIY YERMAK, A TOP
AIDE FOR PRESIDENT ZELENSKY AND
WROTE " GOOD LUNCH, THANKS.
HEARD FROM
WHITE HOUSE ASSUMING PRESIDENT Z
CONVINCES PRESIDENT TRUMP THAT
HE WILL INVESTIGATE AND GET TO
THE BOTTOM OF WHAT HAPPENED IN
2016, WE WILL NAIL DOWN DATE FOR
VISIT TO WASHINGTON. GOOD LUCK,
SEE YOU TOMORROW." WAS THIS
MESSAGE THAT VOLKER PASSED
TO ANDRIY YERMAK, THE MESSAGE
YOU LEFT FOR KURT VOLKER  ON THE
MESSAGE HE REFERENCED?
>> I DON'T REMEMBER MR. GOLDMAN
VERY WELL COULD HAVE BEEN.
>> YOU DON'T HAVE ANY REASON TO
THINK IT WASN'T?
>> AGAIN, HONESTLY, HONESTLY
DON'T REMEMBER BUT IT SEEMS
LOGICAL TO ME.
>> AND
IF AMBASSADOR VOLCKER DID
TESTIFY THAT HE GOT THAT FROM
YOU?
>> IF HE TESTIFIED THAT HE GOT
THAT FOR ME I WOULD CONCUR.
>> SAID THIS MESSAGE IS WHAT YOU
RECEIVED FROM PRESIDENT TRUMP IN
THAT PHONE CALL THAT MORNING?
>> AGAIN, IF HE TESTIFIED TO
THAT, THEN YES, LIKELY I
WOULD'VE RECEIVED THAT FROM
PRESIDENT TRUMP.
>> BUT THE SEQUENCE CERTAINLY
MAKES SENSE?
>> IT DOES.! YOU TALK TO
PRESIDENT TRUMP, TOLD
KURT VOLKER TO CALL YOU, LEFT A
MESSAGE, HE SAID THIS TEXT
MESSAGE TO ANDRIY YERMAK TO
PREPARE  PRESENT ZELENSKY AND
THEN PRESIDENT TRUMP  HAD A
PHONE CALL WHERE PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY SPOKE SIMILAR TO WHAT
WAS IN THIS TEXT MESSAGE? AND
YOU WOULD AGREE THAT THE MESSAGE
IS EXPRESSED HERE IS THAT
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY NEEDS TO
CONVINCE TRUMP THAT HE WILL DO
THE INVESTIGATIONS IN ORDER TO
NAIL DOWN THE DATE FOR A VISIT
TO
WASHINGTON, D.C. IS THAT
CORRECT?
>> THAT
IS CORRECT.
>> I WILL MOVE AHEAD IN TIME TO
EARLY AUGUST AND SEPTEMBER WHEN
YOU CAME TO BELIEVE THAT IT
WASN'T JUST THE WHITE HOUSE
MEETING THAT WAS CONTINGENT ON
THE ANNOUNCEMENT OF THESE
INVESTIGATIONS THAT THE
PRESIDENT WANTED FOR SECURITY
ASSISTANCE AS WELL. YOU
TESTIFIED THAT IN THE ABSENCE OF
ANY CREDIBLE EXPLANATION FOR THE
COLD ON SECURITY SYSTEMS YOU
CAME TO THE CONCLUSION THAT LIKE
THE WHITE HOUSE VISIT THE AIDE
WAS CONDITIONED ON THE
INVESTIGATIONS THAT PRESIDENT
TRUMP WANTED IS THAT WHAT YOU
SAID IN YOUR OPENING STATEMENT?
>> IT IS.
>> BREAK THIS DOWN WITH YOU BY
THIS TIME YOU AND MANY TOP
OFFICIALS KNEW THAT THE COVETED
WHITE
HOUSE MEETING WAS CONDITIONED ON
THESE INVESTIGATIONS.
>>
THE ANNOUNCEMENT.
YOU TESTIFIED THAT THIS WAS A
QUID PRO QUO, IS THAT RIGHT?
>> I DID.
>> AT THIS POINT BY THE END OF
AUGUST NEW THE AIDE HAD BEEN
HELD UP FOR AT LEAST SIX WEEKS,
IS THAT CORRECT?
>> I BELIEVE I FOUND OUT THROUGH
AMBASSADOR TAYLOR THAT THE AIDE
HAS BEEN HELD UP AROUND JULY
18th IS WHEN I HEARD,
ORIGINALLY.
>> EVEN THOUGH YOU SEARCHED
FOR REASONS, YOU WERE NEVER
GIVEN A CREDIBLE EXPLANATION IS
THAT RIGHT?
>> THAT IS RIGHT.
>> KNOW WHEN YOU SPOKE TO
THOUGHT THE AIDE SHOULD
BE HELD, TO YOUR KNOWLEDGE
RIGHT?
>> I NEVER HEARD ANYONE ADVOCATE
FOR HOLDING
THE AIDE.
>> NOW, BY THIS POINT AT THE END
OF AUGUST IT WENT PUBLIC AND THE
UKRAINIANS DO ABOUT IT?
>> I BELIEVE THERE WERE SOME
PRESS REPORTS. BUT, AT THAT
POINT IT BECAME SORT OF COMMON
KNOWLEDGE THAT EVERYTHING MIGHT
BE TIED TOGETHER.
>> IN FACT PRESENT ZELENSKY
BROUGHT IT UP AT THE MEETING
WITH VICE PRESIDENT PENCE THAT
YOU WERE AT?
>> I DON'T KNOW IF YOU BROUGHT
UP SPECIFICALLY BUT ASKED WHERE
THE AIDE WAS I THINK WAS MORE, I
THINK HE SORT OF ASKED, AGAIN
VERY VAGUE RECOLLECTIONS BECAUSE
I DON'T HAVE A READOUT OF THE
BILATERAL MEETING. WHY DON'T I
HAVE MY CHECK, ESSENTIALLY.
>> YOU UNDERSTOOD THE UKRAINIANS
RECEIVED NO CREDIBLE EXPLANATION
IS THAT RIGHT?
>> I CERTAINLY CANNOT GIVE THEM
ONE.
>> THIS KIND OF A 2+2 = 4
CONCLUSION THAT YOU REACHED?
>> PRETTY MUCH
>> THE ONLY LOG LOGICAL
CONCLUSION GIVEN ALL THESE
FACTORS THAT THE AIDE WAS ALSO A
PART OF THIS QUID
PRO QUO.
>> I WANT TO GO BACK TO THE
CONVERSATION YOU HAD WITH
PRESIDENT PENN OR VICE PRESIDENT
PENCE IN THAT MEETING BEFORE IN
WARSAW. YOU INDICATED THAT YOU
SENT TO HIM THAT YOU WERE
CONCERNED THE DELAY IN THE AIDE
WAS TIED TO THE INVESTIGATION IS
THAT
RIGHT?
>> I DON'T KNOW EXACTLY WHAT I
SAID TO HIM, THIS WAS
A BRIEFING ATTENDED BY MANY
PEOPLE AND I WAS INVITED AT THE
VERY LAST MINUTE, I WAS NOT
SCHEDULED TO BE THERE. BUT I
SPOKE UP AT SOME POINT LATE IN
THE MEETING AND SAID IT LOOKS
LIKE EVERYTHING IS BEING HELD UP
UNTIL THESE STATEMENTS GET MADE
AND, THAT IS MY PERSONAL BELIEF.
>> VICE PRESIDENT PENCE JUST
NODDED HIS HEAD?
>> I DON'T RECALL ANY EXCHANGE
OR IF HE ASKED ME ANY QUESTIONS.
IT WAS SORT OF A DULY NOTED.
>> HE DID NOT SAY GORDON, WERE
YOU TALKING ABOUT?
>> HE DID NOT.
>> HE DID NOT SAY WHAT
INVESTIGATION?
>> HE
DID NOT.
>> AFTER THIS MEETING YOU
DISCUSSED THIS RULE ASIDE YOU
HAD WITH MR. YERMAK  WHERE YOU
RELAYED YOUR BELIEF THAT THEY
NEEDED TO ANNOUNCE THESE
INVESTIGATIONS PRIOR TO THE AIDE
BEING RELEASED, IS THAT RIGHT?
>> I SAID, I DID NOT KNOW
EXACTLY WHY BUT THIS COULD BE A
REASON.
>> OBVIOUSLY YOU HAVE BEEN
SPEAKING WITH MR. YERMAK ABOUT
A PUBLIC ANNOUNCEMENT OF THESE
INVESTIGATIONS RIGHT?
>> WE HAD ALL BEEN WORKING TO
THAT END.
>> INDICATED IN ADDITION TO THE
WHITE HOUSE MEETING THE SECURITY
AIDE WAS ALSO INVOLVED?
>> AS I SAID, IT COULD HAVE BEEN
INVOLVED.
>>
I WANT TO SHOW YOU ANOTHER TEXT
EXCHANGE YOU HAD ON SEPTEMBER
1st WHERE AMBASSADOR TAYLOR SAYS
DO YOU ARE WE NOW SAYING THAT
SECURITY ASSISTANCE AND WHITE
HOUSE MEETING ARE CONDITIONED ON
INVESTIGATION? AND YOU RESPOND
CALL ME. AMBASSADOR TAYLOR
RECALLS THAT HE DID CALL YOU AND
YOU DID HAVE A CONVERSATION AND,
IN THAT CONVERSATION YOU TOLD
AMBASSADOR TAYLOR THAT THE
ANNOUNCEMENT OF THESE
INVESTIGATIONS BY PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY NEEDED TO BE PUBLIC AND
THAT THAT ANNOUNCEMENT WAS
CONDITIONED ON, THAT
ANNOUNCEMENT WOULD ULTIMATELY
RELEASE THE AIDE, DO YOU RECALL
THAT CONVERSATION WITH
AMBASSADOR TAYLOR?
>> MY CONVERSATION WITH
AMBASSADOR TAYLOR, MY
CONVERSATION WITH SENATOR
JOHNSON WERE ALL MY PERSONAL
BELIEF BASED ON, AS YOU PUT IT,
2+2
= 4.
>> IN HIS TESTIMONY, AMBASSADOR
TAYLOR SAID THAT PRESIDENT TRUMP
HAD TOLD YOU THAT HE WANTED
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY TO STATE
PUBLICLY, AS OF SEPTEMBER 1st.
DO YOU HAVE ANY REASON TO DOUBT
AMBASSADOR TAYLORS TESTIMONY
WHICH HE SAID WAS BASED ON HIS
METICULOUS, CONTEMPORANEOUS
NOTES?
>>
PRESIDENT TRUMP NEVER TOLD ME
DIRECTLY THAT THE AIDE WAS
CONDITIONED ON THE MEETINGS. THE
ONLY THING WE GOT DIRECTLY FROM
GIULIANI WAS THAT
THE REASON BURISMA AND THE 2016
ELECTIONS WERE CONDITIONED ON
THE WHITE HOUSE MEETING.  THE
AIDE WAS MY OWN PERSONAL GUESS
BASED ON YOUR ANALOGY 2+2 =
4.
>> YOU DO NOT TALK TO PRESIDENT
TRUMP WHEN AMBASSADOR TAYLOR
SAYS THAT IS WHAT YOU TOLD HIM?
>> MY TESTIMONY AS I NEVER HEARD
FROM PRESIDENT TRUMP THAT AIDE
WAS CONDITIONED ON AN
ANNOUNCEMENT OF ELECTION.
>> IS SO YOU NEVER HEARD THE
SPECIFIC WORDS?
>> CORRECT. NEVER HEARD THOSE
WORDS.
>> LET'S MOVE AHEAD BECAUSE YOU
HAVE ANOTHER CONVERSATION IN A
LITTLE BIT LATER THAT BOTH
MORRISON AND AMBASSADOR TAYLOR
RECOUNT. BUT IN THIS SEPTEMBER
1st CONVERSATION AMBASSADOR
TAYLOR ALSO SAYS TESTIFIED,
UNDER OATH THAT PRESIDENT TRUMP
WANTED ZELENSKY IN A PUBLIC BOX,
DO YOU RECALL USING THAT
EXPRESSION?
>> A GOES BACK TO MY EARLIER
COMMENT THAT COMING
FROM THE GIULIANI SOURCE THAT
THEY WANTED WHATEVER COMMITMENTS
UKRAINE MADE TO BE MADE PUBLICLY
SO THEY WOULD BE ON THE RECORD
AND BE HELD MORE ACCOUNTABLE,
WHATEVER THOSE COMMITMENTS WERE.
>> YOU ALSO TESTIFIED OR
AMBASSADOR TAYLOR TESTIFIED THAT
YOU TOLD HIM YOU HAD MADE
A MISTAKE IN TELLING THE
UKRAINIANS THAT ONLY THE WHITE
HOUSE MEETING WAS CONDITIONED ON
THE ANNOUNCEMENT OF THE
INVESTIGATIONS AND THAT IN FACT
EVERYTHING WAS, INCLUDING THE
SECURITY ASSISTANCE. DO YOU
REMEMBER SAYING THAT?
>> WHEN I REFERENCE THE MISTAKE
BUT I RECALL WAS I THOUGHT THAT
A STATEMENT MADE BY THE NEW
UKRAINIAN PROSECUTOR THAT THESE
INVESTIGATIONS WILL BE STARTED
UP AGAIN OR COMMENCE AND BE
SUFFICIENT TO SATISFY MR.
GIULIANI/PRESIDENT TRUMP. AS I
RECALL, MY MISTAKE WAS SOMEONE
CAME BACK THROUGH VOLKER AND
SAID  NO, IT WILL NOT DO IF THE
PROSECUTOR MAKES THE STATEMENTS.
THE PRESIDENT WANTS TO HEAR IT
FROM ZELENSKY DIRECTLY THAT IS
THE MISTAKE I THINK I MADE.
>> GIVE ANY REASON TO QUESTION
AMBASSADOR TAYLORS TESTIMONY
BASED ON HIS NOTES?
>> I WILL NOT QUESTION
IN QUESTION. I JUST TELL YOU
WHAT I BELIEVE I WAS REFERRING
TO.
>> LET ME FAST FORWARD A WEEK
AND SHOW YOU ANOTHER TEXT
EXCHANGE. ON SEPTEMBER 8th YOU
HAD, YOU SENT A TEXT TO
AMBASSADOR TAYLOR AND VOLKER,
CAN YOU READ WHAT YOU WROTE
?
>> MULTIPLE CONVERSATIONS WITH
POTUS AND ZELENSKY, LET'S TALK.
>> THIS IS AT 11:20 IN
THE MORNING. IF WE COULD GO TO
THE NEXT EXCHANGE. AMBASSADOR
TAYLOR THEN 15 MINUTES LATER
SAYS GORDON AND I JUST SPOKE OR
20 MINUTES LATER I CAN BRIEF YOU
IF YOU AND GORDON
DON'T CONNECT. THEN AMBASSADOR
TAYLOR ANNOUNCED THE NIGHTMARES
THEY GIVE
THE INTERVIEW AND DON'T GET THE
SECURITY ASSISTANCE. THE
RUSSIANS LOVE IT, AND I QUIT.
YOU WOULD AGREE, THAT IN THIS
TEXT MESSAGE, AFTER YOU
HAD SPOKEN AN HOUR EARLIER WITH
AMBASSADOR TAYLOR THAT HE IS
LINKING THE
SECURITY ASSISTANCE TO THIS
INTERVIEW, THIS PUBLIC
ANNOUNCEMENT BY PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY IS THAT RIGHT?
>> ABSOLUTELY.
>> IN FACT, AMBASSADOR TAYLOR
TESTIFIED THAT YOU DID HAVE A
CONVERSATION WITH HIM AT THAT
POINT AND THAT YOU
TOLD HIM THAT, JUST AS YOUR TEXT
MESSAGE INDICATES, YOU DID HAVE
A
CONVERSATION WITH PRESIDENT
TRUMP PRIOR TO THE TEXT MESSAGE,
DOES THAT HELP TO REFRESH YOUR
RECOLLECTION THAT YOU SPOKE TO
PRESIDENT TRUMP AT THAT TIME?
>> AGAIN I DON'T RECALL
PRESIDENT TRUMP EVER TALKING TO
ME ABOUT ANY SECURITY
ASSISTANCE, EVER. WHAT THIS
TELLS ME, REFRESHING MY MEMORY
IS THAT BY THE EIGHTH OF
SEPTEMBER IT WAS ABUNDANTLY
CLEAR TO EVERYONE THAT THERE WAS
A LINK AND THAT WE WERE
DISCUSSING THE CHICKEN AND EGG
ISSUE OF SHOULD
THE UKRAINIANS GO OUT ON A LEDGE
AND MAKE THE STATEMENT THAT
PRESIDENT TRUMP WANTED THEM TO
MAKE AND THEN, THEY STILL DON'T
GET THERE WHITE HOUSE VISIT AND
THEIR AID, THAT WOULD BE REALLY
BAD FOR OUR CREDIBILITY. I THINK
THAT IS WHAT HE IS
REFERRING TO.
>> YOU DO ACKNOWLEDGE YOU SPOKE
TO PRESIDENT TRUMP AS YOU
INDICATED IN THAT TEXT? THAT
SKIFF I SAID I DID
I DID. YOU'RE STILL UNDER THE
IMPRESSION THAT THE AIDE WAS
CONTINGENT ON THESE
PUBLIC ANNOUNCEMENTS.
>> YOU WERE DISSUADED THEN? YOU
STILL THOUGHT THAT THE AIDE WAS
CONDITIONED ON THE PUBLIC
ANNOUNCEMENT OF THE
INVESTIGATION AFTER SPEAKING TO
PRESIDENT TRUMP?
>> BY SEPTEMBER 8th I WAS
ABSOLUTELY CONVINCED THAT
IT WAS.
>> AND PRESIDENT TRUMP DID NOT
DISSUADE YOU OF THAT? IN THE
CONVERSATION YOU ACKNOWLEDGED
YOU HAD WITH HIM?
>> I DON'T EVER RECALL. THAT
WOULD'VE CHANGED MY ENTIRE
CALCULUS.
.
>>> THE TEXT AS YOU SAID IM THE
NO QUID PRO QUO WAS MY EFFORT TO
RESPOND TO AMBASSADOR TAYLOR'S
CONCERNS TO GO TO PRESIDENT
TRUMP, APPARENTLY AMBASSADOR
TAYLOR HAD ACCESS TO SECRETARY
POMPEO HE DID NOT HAVE ACCESS TO
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP, I SAID
WHAT DO YOU WANT, PRESIDENT
DONALD TRUMP RESPONDED WITH WHAT
I PUT IN THE TEXT AND I STRONGLY
ENCOURAGING AMBASSADOR TAYLOR TO
TAKE IT UP WITH THE SECRETARY
AND HE RESPONDED, YOU AGREE. AS
FAR AS YOUR OTHER PART OF THE
QUESTION AS FAR AS WHETHER OR
NOT PRESIDENT ZELENSKY OR I
COULD MAKE THE STATEMENT. I DO
NOT RECALL WHO FOLD ME,
AMBASSADOR VOLKER, RUDY GIULIANI
OR PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP, IT
HAS TO BE THE PROSECUTOR, WHO
EVER I GOT THAT INFORMATION FROM
I RELAYED THAT TO BOTH
AMBASSADOR TAYLOR AND MR.
MORRISON.
>> BUT YOU UNDERSTOOD DID YOU
NOT THAT PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP
EITHER HIMSELF OR THROUGH HIS
AGENTS REQUIRED THAT PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY MAKE A PUBLIC
ANNOUNCEMENT OF THE TWO
INVESTIGATIONS THAT PRESIDENT
DONALD TRUMP CARED ABOUT IN
ORDER TO GET BOTH THE WHITE
HOUSE MEETING AND THE SECURITY
ASSISTANCE.
>> I BELIEVE THAT IS CORRECT.
>> I NOW RECOGNIZE MR. NUNES,
WHY DON'T WE TAKE A
FIVE OR 10 MONEY BREAK.
>> THANK YOU
>>> I THINK TODAY'S TESTIMONY IS
AMONG THE MOST SIGNIFICANT
EVIDENCE TO DAY AND WHAT WE HAVE
JUST HEARD WAS ABOUT THE
KNOWLEDGE OF THE SCHEME, L
CONDITIONING OF THE SECURITY
ASSISTANCE TO GET THE
DELIVERABLE THAT THE PRESIDENT
WANTED. THE TWO INVESTIGATIONS
THAT HE BELIEVED WOULD BENEFIT
HIS CAMPAIGN WAS A BASIC QUID
PRO QUO, THE CONDITIONING OF
OFFICIAL ACTS FOR THE
INVESTIGATIONS, IT GOES TO THE
HEART OF THE ISSUE OF BRIBERY AS
WELL AS OTHER POTENTIAL HIGH
CRIMES OR MISDEMEANORS BUT WE
HAVE ALSO HEARD FOR THE FIRST
TIME THAT KNOWLEDGE OF THE
SCHEME WAS PER PERVASIVE. THE
SECRETARY OF STATE WAS AWARE OF
IT. THE ACTING CHIEF OF STAFF,
MICK MULVANEY WAS AWARE OF IT
AND OF COURSE DONALD TRUMP
THROUGH HIS LAWYERS AND OTHERS
WAS IMPLEMENTING IT. THIS I
THINK ONLY GOES TO UNDERSCORE
JUST HOW SIGNIFICANT THE
PRESIDENT'S OBSTRUCTION OF THIS
INVESTIGATION HAS BEEN. WE NOW
CAN SEE THE VENEER HAS BEEN TORN
AWAY, JUST WHY SECRETARY
SECRETARY OF STATE MIKE POMPEO
AND DONALD TRUMP DO NOT WANT THE
DOCUMENTS SHOWN TO CONGRESS
BECAUSE AMBASSADOR SONDLAND HAS
TESTIFIED THAT THE KNOWLEDGE OF
THIS SCHEME TO CONDITION
SPECIFIC ACTS WAS CONDITIONED ON
POLITICAL FAVORS THE PRESIDENT
WANTED FOR HIS REELECTION. SO I
THINK A VERY IMPORTANT MOMENT IN
THE HISTORY OF THIS INQUIRY.
THANK YOU
>>>
I NOW RECOGNIZE RANGING MEMBER
NUNES AND MINORITY COUNSEL 445
MINUTES OF QUESTIONS.
>>> FOR THOSE OF YOU WATCHING AT
HOME THAT WAS NOT A BATHROOM
BREAK THAT WAS A CHANCE FOR THE
DEMOCRATS TO HOLD A PRESS
CONFERENCE FOR ALL OF THE
SUPPOSED BOMB SHELLS, I WANT TO
GET BACK TO THE FACTS OF THE
MATTER HERE AND SAYING THAT THE
DEMOCRATS HAVE BEEN
UNWILLING TO ACCEPT THAT THEIR
OPERATIVES GOT CAMPAIGN DIRT
FROM THE UKRAINIANS IN THE 2016
ELECTION, THEY KNOW ITS TRUE, WE
HAVE FINANCIAL RECORDS THAT SHOW
IT. THE DEMOCRATS WERE HEAVILY
INVOLVED WORKING WITH THE EU
UKRAINIANS TO DIRTY UP THE
PRESIDENT IN 2016, I WANT TO GO
THROUGH SOME OF THE INCIDENTS
THAT WE KNOW, AMBASSADOR
SONDLAND YOU KNOW YOU MAY NOT
KNOW THEM. BUT I WANT TO WALK
THROUGH THE EXAMPLES ABOUT WHY
THE PRESIDENT MAY BE VERY UPSET
WITH UKRAINE AND THAT THEY ARE A
COUNTRY THAT IS OUT TO GET HIM.
YOU HAVE SAID THAT AND
AMBASSADOR VOLKER HAVE SAID THAT
FROM THAT MAY 23RD MEETING. THE
FIRST QUESTION I HAVE IS WERE
YOU AWARE OF THE ANTI-TRUMP
EFFORTS BY DNC OPERATIVE
CHALUPA.
>> I AM NOT AWARE OF IT.
>> SO IN 2017,
THERE IS AN ARTICLE
THAT ALSO QUOTES A UKRAINIAN
PARLIAMENT MEMBER SAYING THAT
THEY WERE SUPPORTING HILLARY
CLINTON'S CANDIDACY
AND THEY DID EVERYTHING FROM
ORGANIZING MEMBERS OF THE
CLINTON TEAM. I THINK THAT THEY
DID NOT MEET WITH THE TRUMP
CAMPAIGN BECAUSE THEY THOUGHT
HILLARY CLINTON WOULD O WIN. DO
YOU KNOW THAT OFFICIAL.
>>> I DO NOT.
>> ARE YOU
AWARE THAT A MEMBER OF
PARLIAMENT WROTE AN ARTICLE
CRITICIZING PRESIDENT DONALD
TRUMP.
>> I AM NOT AWARE.
>> BUT YOU KNOW THAT NOW.
>> CORRECT.
>> PROBABLY THE MOST DISTURBING
ONE, THE UKRAINIAN OFFICIAL
MOCKED AND DISPARAGED PRESIDENT
DONALD TRUMP ON FACEBOOK AND
TWITTER. WERE YOU AWARE THAT A
MEMBER OF UKRAINE PARLIAMENT
ADMITTED THAT PART OF HIS
MOTIVATION ABOUT SPREADING THE
INFORMATION OF
A SO CALLED BLACK LEDGER,
REVEALED TO UNDERMINE THE TRUMP
CANDIDACY.
>> I WAS NOT AWARE.
>> THE BLACK LEDGER WAS USED TO
DIRTY UP A CAMPAIGN ASSOCIATE
AND LATER MUELLER USED THAT AS
EVIDENCE IN HIS REPORT ON
ELECTION MEDDLING. SO KNOWING
ALL OF THESE FACTS FROM HIGH
RANKING UKRAINIAN OFFICIALS,
AMBASSADOR, PROBABLY IT MAKES
MORE SENSE AS TO WHY THE
PRESIDENT MAY THINK THAT THERE
ARE PROBLEMS WITH UKRAINE AND
THAT UKRAINE WAS OUT TO GET HIM
IS THAT CORRECT?
>> I UNDERSTAND YOUR POINT, YES
CHAIRMAN.
>> YOU SAID IN YOUR DEPOSITION,
I AM GOING TO MAKE SURE, I AM
GOING TO READ IT BACK TO YOU ON
PAGE 279 FOR YOUR LEGAL TEAM,
THEY ARE ALL CORRUPT. THIS IS
WHAT YOU SAID ABOUT YOUR
CONVERSATION WITH THE PRESIDENT.
THIS IS YOUR WORDS ABOUT WHAT
THE PRESIDENT TOLD YOU.
>> THIS IS THE MAY 23RD MEETING?
>> THAT'S CORRECT. THEY ARE ALL
CORRUPT. THEY ARE ALL TERRIBLE
PEOPLE AND I DO NOT WANT TO
SPEND ANY TIME WITH THAT, HE
ALSO SAID THEY TRIED TO TAKE ME
DOWN.
>> THAT'S CORRECT.
>> THEY TRIED TO TAKE HIM DOWN.
ANY LOGICAL PERSON THAT WANTS TO
DO TWO PLUS TWO EQUALS FOUR
GAMES WOULD SAY THAT WAS IN THE
2016 ELECTION.
>> I BELIEVE THAT'S WHAT HE WAS
REFERRING TO, YES.
>> DURING ALL OF THIS TIME AND
REMEMBER
IN THE SPRING, THE DEMOCRATS
RUSSIA HOAX WITCH HUNT IS STILL
ONGOING, THEY ARE STILL CLAIMING
THAT PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP IS A
RUSSIAN AGENT. THEY ARE OUT TO
GET PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP AT
THE TIME. HIS PERSONAL ATTORNEY
IS THEN INTERESTED THIS TRYING
TO FIGURE OUT WHO ARE THESE
UKRAINIANS TRYING TO GET TO MY
CANDIDATE. THOSE OF US, THE
REPUBLICANS ON THIS COMMITTEE
WHO ARE TRYING TO GET TO THE
BOTTOM OF WHO ARE THE SOURCES IN
THE STELLE  DOSSIER, THE HOUSE
REPUBLICANS WOULD LIKE TO KNOW,
THAT'S WHY WE INTERVIEW
SUBPOENAED THE DNC OPERATIVES
THAT THE DEMOCRATS REFUSED TO
SUBPOENA. WE WANT TO KNOW WHO
WERE THESE DEMOCRATIC OPERATIVES
DIRTYING UP THE TRUMP CAMPAIGN,
THEY CANNOT GET OBVIOUS THAT THE
PRESIDENT WOULD SEND HIS
PERSONAL ATTORNEY OVER THERE TO
GET TO THE BOTTOM OF THAT. YOU
HAD VERY FEW DEALINGS WITH RUDY
GIULIANI.
>> A FEW TEXT MESSAGES AND A FEW
PHONE CALLS.
>> SO THE WHISTLE BLOWER, THEY
HAVE A TIME LINE PROBLEM, THE
WHISTLE BLOWER THAT ONLY THEY
KNOW WHO
THEY WILL NOT SUBPOENA WHO
CLEARLY ALEXANDER VINDMAN KNOWES
WHO THEY BLOCKED TESTIMONY FROM
YESTERDAY AND WOULD NOT ALLOW
HIM TO ANSWER OUR QUESTIONS,
THAT WHISTLE BLOWER SAYS ON JULY
25TH THAT THERE WERE AWLZ OF
THESE PROMISES BEING MADE YET
THE, I FORGET WHAT THEY CALLED
IT, THE DRUG DEAL THAT THE 3
AMIGOS WERE COOKING UP WAS THE
LATEST. YOU ARE PART OF THE 3
AMIGOS, WERE YOU AWARE OF ANY
DRUG DEAL ON JULY 25TH WHEN THE
PHONE CALL ACTUALLY OCCURRED.
>> I DO NOT KNOW ABOUT A DRUG
DEAL.
>> DO YOU KNOW THAT YOU ARE PART
OF THE 3 AMIGOS.
>> I AM A PROUD PART OF THE 3
AMIGOS.
>> THAT'S THE SAME THING THAT
AMBASSADOR VOLKER SAID. BY THE
TIME THAT THE PHONE CALL THAT
THE WHISTLE BLOWER CLAIMS WAS
THE ORIGINAL QUID PRO QUO WE ARE
A MONTH LATER WHERE YOU ARE
INVOLVED AND THEIR QUID PRO QUO
HAS GOTTEN DOWN TO THE LOW LEVEL
OF THEY WANT A STATEMENT. YOU
DID NOT KNOW ABOUT ANYTHING TO
DO WITH, ON JULY 25TH YOU KNEW
NOTHING ABOUT MILITARY AD BEING
WITHHELD.
>> I KNEW THAT MILITARY AID WAS
WITHHELD ON JULY 18TH WHEN
AMBASSADOR TAYLOR TOLD BOTH OF
US THAT WAS THE CASE.
>> YOU WERE NOT ON THE JULY 25TH
CALL.
>> I WAS NOT.
>> WHERE THE AID DOES NOT COME
UP AT ALL.
>> I JUST READ THE READ OUT.
>> EVERYBODY TESTIFIED IT WAS ON
THE JULY 25TH CALL, THERE WAS NO
AID DISCUSSED ON THE JULY 25TH
CALL. YOU HAVE NO IDEA THIS IS
TIED TO BURISMA UNTIL THE END OF
AUGUST.
>> I DID NOT REALIZE THAT AID
WAS TIED. THE BURISMA AND 2016
PIECE WAS MUCH EARLIER RANKING
MEMBER.
>> I AM GLAD YOU BRING UP
BURISMA, THIS IS ANOTHER ISSUE
THAT THE DEMOCRATS DO NOT WANT
TO GO INTO, THEY REFUSED TO CALL
IN HUNTER BIDEN, HE COULD COME
IN AND TALK ABOUT WHETHER OR NOT
IT WAS APPROPRIATE FOR HIM TO
RECEIVE OVER $50,000 A MONTH
WHILE HIS DAD WAS VEUZ PRESIDENT
AND WHEN THEY ACTUALLY WERE ABLE
TO STOP AND GET AN INVESTIGATOR
FIRED, THEY CAN CALL IN HUNTER
BIDEN BUT THEY DO NOT WANT TO DO
IT. LETS TALK ABOUT BURISMA, I
KNOW YOU ARE THE AMBASSADOR TO
THE EU, I THINK SOME OF THE
MEMBERS WILL GET INTO WHETHER OR
NOT IT WAS APPROPRIATE FOR YOU
TO BE IN UKRAINE, I BELIEVE IT
WAS, BUT YOU WOULD NOT BE THE
FIRST AMBASSADOR TO ACTUALLY BE
INTERESTED IN BURISMA. DID YOU
KNOW THAT IN SEPTEMBER OF 2015
THEN AMBASSADOR TO UKRAINE
PUBLICLY CALLED FOR
AN INVESTIGATION INTO THE
PRESIDENT OF BURISMA? THIS WAS
THE UKRAINIAN AMBASSADOR,
APPOINTED BY PRESIDENT OBAMA IN
UKRAINE.
>> I WAS NOT AWARE OF THAT, NO.
>> YOU WERE NOT AWARE OF THAT.
>> YOU WOULD NOT BE THE FIRST
ONE TO BE MENTIONING THAT
INVESTIGATIONS SHOULD BE DONE ON
BURISMA BECAUSE IT HAPPENED
DURING THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION,
DID YOU KNOW THAT FINANCIAL
RECORDS SHOWED THAT BURISMA
ROUTED $3 MILLION TO THE
ACCOUNTS TIED TO HUNTER BIDEN.
>> I DID NOT KNOW THAT.
>> DID YOU KNOW THAT BURISMA'S
AMERICAN LAWYERS TRIED TO SECURE
A FEETING WITH THE PROSECUTOR
THE SAME DAY AS THE PROSECUTOR
THAT THE VICE PRESIDENT WAS
ANNOUNCED.
>> I DID NOT KNOW THAT.
>> WE ARE NOT GOING TO GET TO
THE ANSWERS OF MANY OF THESE
QUESTIONS BECAUSE THE WITNESSES
THAT NEED TO COME IN AND CLARIFY
WHAT THE DEMS WERE DOING IN 2016
WE ARE NOT GOING TO BE ABLE TO
VISIT WITH THOSE WITNESSES SO
ITS AN INCONVENIENT TRUTH THAT
THE DEMOCRATS DO NOT WANT TO
ADMIT, THEIR OPERATIVES THAT
WERE DIRTYING UP THE TRUMP
CAMPAIGN USING UKRAINE SOURCES
IN 2016 AND THEY DO NOT WANT US
TO GET TO THE BOTTOM OF IT. THEY
DO NOT WANT YOU AMBASSADOR TO
GET TO THE BOTTOM OF IT, THEY DO
NOT WANT THE PRESIDENT'S
PERSONAL ATTORNEY TO CONDUCT A
INVESTIGATION THAT THEY FED INTO
THE FBI THAT WE DEALT WITH FOR
THREE YEARS, THEY DO NOT WANT TO
GET TO THE BOTTOM OF THAT. I
THINK MR. CASTOR HAS SOME
QUESTIONS.
>> GOOD MORNING AMBASSADOR
SONDLAND, HOW ARE YOU.
>> GOOD MORNING MR. CASTOR.
>> WELCOME BACK.
>> THANK YOU FOR YOUR
COOPERATION WITH THE
INVESTIGATION, DID THE PRESIDENT
TELL YOU PERMANENTLY ABOUT ANY
PRE- CONDITIONING FOR ANYTHING?
>> NO.
>> OKAY SO THE PRESIDENT NEVER
TOLD YOU ABOUT PRE- CONDITIONS
FOR THE AID TO BE RELEASED.
>> NO.
>> THE PRESIDENT NEVER TOLD YOU
ABOUT PRE- CONDITIONS FOR A
WHITE HOUSE MEETING STVMENT FERM
PERSONALLY NO.
>> YOU SAID YOU DO NOT HAVE YOUR
RECORDS FROM THE STATE
DEPARTMENT BUT IF YOU DID THERE
WOULD NOT BE A DOCUMENT THAT
TIES PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP TO
ANY OF THIS.
>> I DO NOT WANT TO SPECULATE.
>> THEY ARE YOUR DO YOU MEANS.
>> I DO NOT RECALL ANYTHING LIKE
THAT.
>> YOU TESTIFIED THAT AT MR.
RUDY GIULIANI'S REQUEST FOR A
QUUD PRO QUOA FOR THE WHITE
HOUSE MEETING, YOU INDICATED
THAT YOU BELIEVE THAT WAS, HE
WAS ADVANCING PRESIDENT DONALD
TRUMP'S TRSES, CORRECT.
>> MY CONTACT WITH RUDY GIULIANI
BEGAN LATE IN THE PROCESS AFTER
AUGUST 1 WHERE I WAS INTRODUCED
TO HIM BY A TEXT FROM AMBASSADOR
VOLKER, WE HAD ALREADY BEGUN THE
DISCUSSIONS I BELIEVE PRIOR TO
AUGUST 1, EVERYTHING WAS BEING
FUNNELED THROUGH OTHERS
INCLUDING A.M. VOA.
>> YOU TESTIFIED THAT RUDY
GIULIANI WAS EXPRESSING THE
DESIRES OF THE PRESIDENT
CORRECT.
>> THAT'S OUR UNDERSTANDING.
>> HOW DID YOU KNOW THAT.
>> WHEN THE PRESIDENT SAYS TALK
TO MY PERSONAL ATTORNEY AND WHEN
RUDY GIULIANI AS HIS PERSONAL
ATTORNEY MAKES CERTAIN REQUESTS
OR DEMANDS WE ASSUME IT IS
COMING FROM THE PRESIDENT, I AM
NOT TESTIFYING THAT I HEARD THE
PRESIDENT TELL RUDY GIULIANI TO
TELL US.
>> IN YOUR DEPOSITION YOU SAID
THAT THE QUESTION WAS AT THE MAY
23RD MEETING WHEN ET PRESIDENT
SAID GO TALK TO RUDY GIULIANI,
HE DID NOT EVEN SAY GO TALK, HE
SAID
TALK TO RUDY GIULIANI. YOU
SUBSEQUENTLY SAID IT WAS LIKE I
DO NOT WANT TO TALK ABOUT THIS.
IT WAS NOT AN ORDER OR DIRECTION
TO TALK WITH RUDY GIULIANI.
>> OUR CONCLUSION AND THE
CONCLUSION OF THE THREE OF US
WAS THAT IF WE DID NOT TALK TO
RUDY GIULIANI NOTHING WOULD MOVE
FORWARD ON UKRAINE.
>> THAT WAS MAY 23RD, YOU NEVER
HAD ANY PERSONAL COMMUNICATE
CAUTIONS WITH RUDY GIULIANI
UNTIL AUGUST.
>> THAT'S CORRECT.
>> AND AMBASSADOR VOLKER WAS
HANDLING.
>> AMBASSADOR VOLKER, PERRY AND
OTHERS.
>> AMBASSADOR VOLKER TESTIFIED
HE IS A PROFESSIONAL DIPLOMAT,
CORRECT.
>> HE IS.
>> YOU SAID YOU HAD A GREAT
RELATIONSHIP WITH HIM.
>> I DO.
>> YOU SAID HE WAS A SMART GUY.
>> YES.
>> AMBASSADOR YOVANOVITCH SAID
HE IS A BRILLIANT DIPLOMAT, DO
YOU AGREE WITH THAT.
>> HE IS PRETTY SMART.
>> YOU STATED HE IS ONE OF THOSE
PEOPLE I WOULD HAND MY WALLET
TO.
>> I WOULD.
>> DID YOU HEAR HIS TESTIMONY
YESTERDAY.
>> I DID NOT.
>> I WAS BUSY GETTING READY FOR
YOU.
>> HE DID NOT HAVE ANY EVIDENCE
OF ANY OF THESE PRE- CONDITIONS
AND HE WAS THE ONE MOST ENGAGED
WITH THE UKRAINIANS?
>> YES.
>> YOU TESTIFIED THIS WAS HIS
FULL TIME JOB ALTHOUGH HE WAS
DOING IT FOR FREE.
>> HE WAS THE SPECIAL ENVOY.
>> YOU TESTIFIED YOU CAME IN AND
OUT OF THE EVENTS.
>> THAT'S CORRECT.
>> OKAY. IN THE DEPOSITION WE
ASKED YOU ABOUT YOUR COMMUNICATE
CAUTIONS WITH THE PRESIDENT AND
WE CANNED ASKED YOU WHETHER
THERE WERE SO MANY THAT IT WOULD
BE IMPOSSIBLE TO CHRONICLE AND
YOU SAID NO IT WAS NOT THAT
MANY. YOU WENT DOWN THE PATH OF
BUILDING A LIST OF
COMMUNICATIONS THAT YOU REMEMBER
WITH THE
PRESIDENT, RIGHT?
>> CORRECT.
>> WE TALKED ABOUT MAY 23RD IN
THE OVAL OFFICE AND YOU
MENTIONED ON JULY 25TH BEFORE
YOU WENT TO UKRAINE YOU CALLED
THE PRESIDENT BUT THERE WAS NO
INFORMATION ON THE 25TH CALL
CORRECT.
>> NOT THAT I RECALL.
>> LAST FRIDAY MR. HOMES CAME IN
AND HIS TESTIMONY REFRESHED YOUR
RECOLLECTION.
>> WHAT REFRESHED MY
RECOLLECTION WAS WHEN HE
MENTIONED ASAP ROCKY, ALL OF A
SUDDEN IT CAME BACK TO ME.
>> TALKING ABOUT PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY LOVING IT.
>> THE WHOLE THING CAME BACK TO
ME.
>> THEN THE NEXT TIME WE TRIED
TO UNPACK THIS, THE NEXT TIME
YOU TALKED WITH THE PRESIDENT ON
THE TELEPHONE WAS SEPTEMBER
NINTH ACCORDING TO YOUR
DEPOSITION, RIGHT?
>> I MAY HAVE SPOKEN TO HIM ON
SEPTEMBER SIXTH BUT AGAIN I DO
NOT HAVE ALL OF THE RECORDS, I
WISH I COULD GET THEM THEN I
COULD ANSWER YOUR QUESTIONS
EASILY.
>> ON SEPTEMBER NINTH AT YOUR
DEP YOU WERE CLEAR, YOU CALLED
THE PRESIDENT AND SAID HE WAS
FEELING CRANKY THAT DAY.
>> HE SEEMED VERY CRANKY TO ME.
>> THIS IS ON THE HEELS OF THE
BILL TAYLOR TEXT.
>> RIGHT.
>> WHAT DID THE PRESIDENT SAY TO
YOU ON SEPTEMBER NINTH THAT YOU
REMEMBER?
>> WORDS TO THE EFFECT, I
DECIDED TO ASK THE PRESIDENT THE
QUESTION IN AN OPEN ENDED
FASHION BECAUSE THERE WERE SO
MANY DIFFERENT SCENARIOS
FLOATING AROUND AS TO WHAT WAS
GOING ON WITH UKRAINE, RATHER
THAN ASK THE PRESIDENT NINE
DIFFERENT QUESTIONS, IS THIS
THIS OR THAT, I SAID WHAT DO YOU
WANT FROM UKRAINE, I MAY HAVE
USED A FOUR LETTER WORD. HE SAID
I WANT NOTHING, NO QUID PRO QUO
I JUST WANT PRESIDENT ZELENSKY
TO DO THE RIGHT THING OR DO WHAT
HE RAN ON OR WORDS TO THAT
EFFECT. THAT GAVE ME THE PIPETUS
TO RESPOND TO AMBASSADOR TAYLOR,
IT WAS NOT AN ARTFULLY WRITTEN
TEXT BUT YOU WANTED AMBASSADOR
TAYLOR TO PICKUP THE BALL AND
TAKE IT FROM THERE, I HAD GONE
AS FAR AS I COULD GO.
>> YOU BELIEVE THE PRESIDENT,
CORRECT?
>> YOU KNOW WHAT, I AM NOT GOING
TO CHARACTERIZE WHETHER I
BELIEVED OR DID NOT BELIEVE I
WAS JUST TRYING TO CONVEY WHAT
WAS SAID ON THE PHONE.
>> AT THAT TIME THE AID WAS
PAUSED FOR 55 DAYS,
THERE WAS AN ARTICLE IN
PILITIOC, AT THAT TIME THE
PRESIDENT HAS BEEN GETTING CALLS
FROM SENATORS AND GETTING
PRESSURE TO LIFT THE AID,
CORRECT?
>> THAT'S WHAT I UNDERSTAND,
YES.
>> I WANT TO TURN BACK TO YOUR
OPENER ON PAGE FIVE WHEN YOU
TALK ABOUT IN
THE ABSENCE OF ANY CREDIBLE
EXPLANATION FOR THE SUSPENSION
OF AID I LATER CAME TO BELIEVE
THAT THE SECURITY AID WOULD NOT
OCCUR UNTIL THERE WAS A PUBLIC
STATEMENT FROM UKRAINE KRITTING
TO THE INVESTIGATION, CORRECT?
>> CORRECT.
>> YOU ACKNOWLEDGE THIS IS
SPECULATION.
>> IT WAS A PRESUMPTION.
>> IT WAS A GUESS, YOU SAID THIS
MORNING.
>> WELL, I WANT TO SAY THAT IT
GOES BACK TO MR. GOLDMAN'S
POINT, TWO PLUS TWO EQUALED FOUR
IN MY MIND AT THAT POINT.
>> BUT YOU DID NOT HAVE ANY
EVIDENCE OF THAT.
>> OTHER THAN THE AID WAS NOT
BEING RELEASED AND WE WERE NOT
GETTING ANYWHERE WITH THE
UKRAINIANS.
>> DID AMBASSADOR VOLKER CLUE
YOU IN THAT WAS THE ISSUE. THIS
IS A PRETTY SERIOUS CONCLUSION
THAT YOU HAVE REACHED WITHOUT
PRECISE EVIDENCE.
>> I SENT THAT E-MAIL TO
SECRETARY OF STATE MIKE POMPEO
TO SET UP A POTENTIAL MEETING
BETWEEN PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP
AND PRESIDENT ZELENSKY IN WARSAW
WHEN YOU REFERRED TO THE LOG JAM
I REFERRED TO THE LOG JAM IN A
VERY INCLUSIVE WAY, EVERYTHING
WAG JAMMED UP AT THAT POINT AND
SECRETARY OF STATE MIKE POMPEO
GAVE ME THE GREEN LIGHT TO BRIEF
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY ABOUT MAKING
THOSE ANNOUNCEMENTS.
>> OKAY, WE
CAN TURN TO THAT. THAT WAS YOUR
E-MAIL DATED WHAT DATE?
>> DO YOU HAVE A PAGE.
>> YOUR E-MAIL
TO SECRETARY POMPEO, WAS THAT
AUGUST 11TH?
>> AUGUST 22
>> SO YOU ARE ASKED SECRETARY OF
STATE MIKE POMPEO IF YOU SHOULD
BLOCK IT. IS THERE ANY
DISCUSSION OF SPECIFIC
INVESTIGATION OR BIDEN AND
BURISMA OR ANYTHING LINKING TO
AID IN THIS E-MAIL THAT YOU SENT
TO SECRETARY OF STATE MIKE
POMPEO.
>> THIS WAS A PROPOSED BRIEFING
THAT I WAS GOING TO GIVE
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY AND I WAS
GOING TO CALL PRESIDENT ZELENSKY
AND ASK HIM TO SAY WHAT IS IN
THIS E-MAIL
AND I WAS ASKING ESSENTIALLY
PRESIDENT POMPEO'S PERMISSION TO
DO THAT, WHICH HE SAID YES.
>> AT THAT TIME WE ARE TALKING
ABOUT INVESTIGATIONS INTO THE
2016 ELECTION, WE ARE NOT
TALKING ABOUT JOE BIDEN.
>> JOE BIDEN DID NOT COME UP.
>> STEPPING BACK APAGE TO YOUR
E-MAIL TO THE STATE DEPARTMENT
ON AUGUST 11TH, YOU E-MAILED
SECRETARY OF STATE MIKE POMPEO
AND YOU SAID KURT AND I GOARGTED
A STATEMENT TO BE DELIVERED
WITHIN A DAY OR TWO. THE
QUESTION I HAVE HERE, THAT
STATEMENT NEVER WAS ISSUED AND
IN FACT AMBASSADOR VOLKER HAS
TESTIFIED THAT HE DID NOT THINK
IT WAS A GOOD IDEA AND
ULTIMATELY THE UKRAINIANS DID
NOT THINK IT WAS A GOOD IDEA SO
THE STATEMENT NEVER REACHED A
FINALIZED STATE.
>> THAT'S CORRECT.
>> BUT EVEN IF IT HAD, IT DOES
NOT TALK ABOUT BIDENS OR BURISMA
OR ANYTHING INSIDIOUS.
>> THE STATEMENT AS I RECALLED
WOULD HAVE MENTIONED THE 2016
ELECTION/DNC SERVER AND BURISMA
AND NOT THE BIDENS.
>> HAVE YOU HEARD AMBASSADOR
VOLKER ABOUT WHEN HE TALKS ABOUT
AN INVESTIGATION INTO BURISMA.
>> NO.
>> HE HAS SAID THAT IF THERE
WERE UKRAINIANS ENGAGED IN
VIOLATIONS OF UKRAINIAN LAW THE
PROSECUTOR GENERAL WITH
THE NEW ADMINISTRATION OUGHT TO
INVESTIGATE THAT. DID AMBASSADOR
VOLKER EVER RELATE THAT TO YOU.
>> WE JUST TALKED IN GENERIC
TERMS ABOUT INVESTIGATING
BURISMA.
>> IT HAD NOTHING TO DO WITH
VICE PRESIDENT BIDEN.
>> I NEVER HEARD VICE PRESIDENT
BIDEN COMING UP UNTIL LATE IN
THE GAME. MAYBE AFTER THE
TRANSCRIPT OF THE JULY 25TH
CALL. I DO NOT KNOW WHEN I MADE
THE CONNECTION, APPARENTLY A LOT
OF PEOPLE DID NOT MAKE THE
CONNECTION.
>> I WANT TO TURN TO THE LETTER
FROM JUROR JOHNSON. WHEN HE
HEARD ABOUT SOME OF THESE ISSUES
AND HOLDING THE AID HE CALLED
THE PRESIDENT ON AUGUST 31, IT'S
PAGE SIX OF HIS LETTER, SENATOR
JOHNSON WRITES I ASKED HIM, THE
PRESIDENT, WHETHER THERE IS SOME
KIND OF AN ARRANGEMENT WHERE
UKRAINE WOULD TAKE SOME ACTION
AND THE HOLD WOULD BE LIFTED.
WITHOUT HESITATION PRESIDENT
DONALD TRUMP IMMEDIATELY DENIED
SUCH AN ARRANGEMENT EXISTED.
SENATOR JOHNSON QUOTES THE
PRESIDENT WITH SAYING NO WAY, I
WOULD NEVER
THAT, WHO TOLD YOU THAT? SENATOR
JOHNSON SAID I HAVE ACCURATELY
CHARACTERIZED THE PRESIDENT'S
REACTION AS ADAMANT, VEHEMENT
AND ANGRY, THE PHONE CALL WITH
THE PRESIDENT WAS NOT A PUBLIC
EVENT, IT WAS CAPTURING A AGAIN
WIN MOMENT WITH THE PRESIDENT
AND HE HAD AT THIS POINT IN TIME
ON AUGUST 31 HE WAS ADAMANT,
VEHEMENT AND ANGRY THAT THERE
WAS THOUGH CONNECTION TO AID. NO
PRE- CONDITIONS.
>> I HAD MY MEETING WITH SENATOR
JOHNSON WHERE AGAIN I MADE THE
PRESUMPTION THAT I MADE TO BOTH
MR. YURMAK AND THE E-MAIL I
SEPTEMBER TO SECRETARY POMPEO
AND WE WERE RUMINATING ABOUT
WHAT WAS GOING ON AND SENATOR
JOHNSON I BELIEVE SAID I AM
GOING TO CALL PRESIDENT DONALD
TRUMP AND FIND OUT AND THEN HE
OBVIOUSLY HAD THAT PHONE CALL. I
WAS NOT INVOLVED IN THAT PHONE
CALL.
>> SO YOU HAVE NO REASON TO
DISBELIEVE THAT WAS THE WAY IT
WENT DOWN.
>> NO REASON TO DISBELIEVE
SENATOR JOHNSON.
>> NOW THAT YOU HAVE HAD SOME
TIME AND YOU SUBMITTED
AN ADDENDUM RELATED TO THE
WARSAW MEETING. ARE WE MISSING
YOUR COMMUNICATIONS WITH THE
PRESIDENT.
>> I HAVE NOT HAD THAT MANY
COMMUNICATE CAUTIONS WITH THE
PRESIDENT AND THE CALL RECORDS
THAT I HAD HAD ACCESS TO, THE
CALL RECORDS INDICATE THAT I
NEVER GOT THROUGH, I CANNOT GIVE
YOU AN ACCURATE COUNT OF HOW
MANY CONVERSATIONS PLUS I HAVE
HAD A LOT OF CONVERSATIONS WITH
THE PRESIDENT ABOUT COMPLETELY
UNRELATED MATTERS THAT HAVE
NOTHING TO DO WITH UKRAINE.
>> YOU DO NOT THINK THAT WE ARE
MISSING ANY MATERIAL
CONVERSATIONS.
>> I DO NOT RECALL ANY MATERIAL
CONVERSATIONS TODAY AS I AM
SITTING HERE.
>> OR WITH RUDY GIULIANI.
>> MY MEMORY ABOUT THE
CONVERSATIONS WITH RUDY GIULIANI
WHETHER THEY WERE DIRECT OR
CONFERENCE CALLS WITH AMBASSADOR
VOLKER OR SECRETARY PERRY IS
REALLY VAGUE WITHOUT SEEING THE
CALL LOGS.
>> ARE THERE ANY OTHER KEY FACT
WITNESSES THAT WOULD HELP US GET
TO THE BOTTOM OF WHETHER THERE
WAS A LINK TO THE AID.
>> MAYBE BRIAN MCCORMACK, THE
CHIEF OF STEF FOR SECRETARY
PERRY WHO WAS INVOLVED IN THAT
AS WELL.
>> NOW THE AID WAS ULTIMATELY
LIFTED ON SEPTEMBER 11TH,
CORRECT.
>> I BELIEVE THAT IS CORRECT.
>> STHOR SENATOR JOHNSON IN HIS
LETTER ON PAGE SIX QUOTES THE
PRESIDENT ON AUGUST 31, RON, I
UNDERSTAND YOUR POSITION, WE ARE
REVIEWING IT NOW AND YOU WILL
PROBABLY LIKE MY FINAL DECISION,
EVEN ON AUGUST 31 EVEN BEFORE
ANY CONGRESSIONAL INVESTIGATION
STARTED, THE PRESIDENT WAS
SIGNALING TO SENATOR JOHNSON
THAT HE WAS GOING TO LIFT THE
AID.
>> SOUNDS LIKE IT YES.
>> MOST OF THE OTHER WITNESSES
WE TALKED TO, WHETHER FROM
THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE OR
OMB, HAVE TOLD US THAT ALL ALONG
DURING THE 55 DAY PERIOD THEY
BELIEVED THAT THE HOLD WOULD BE
LIFTED. WAS THAT YOUR FEELING AT
THE TIME.
>> I DID NOT KNOW, EVERY TIME I
WAS ASKED ABOUT THE HOLD I WAS
NOT GIVEN A STRAIGHT ANSWER AS
TO WHY IT'S BEEN PUT IN PLACE TO
BEGIN WITH.
>> WHAT DO YOU KNOW ABOUT THE
UKRAINE KNOWLEDGE ABOUT THE AID.
>> THAT'S VAGUE, I DO NOT KNOW
IF IT WAS THE PILITICO AID OR
FROM RUDY GIULIANI.
>> DURING YOUR DEPOSITION YOU
TESTIFIED THAT YOU DID
NOT BELIEVE THAT THE UKRAINIANS
BELIEVED OR WERE AWARE OF THE
HOLD UNTIL THE PILITICO ARTICLE.
>> I THINK THAT I TESTIFIED THAT
I WAS NOT CLEAR ON THE EXACT
DATES AND WHEN THE LIGHT WENT
ON. THERE WERE A LOT OF
CONVERSATIONS GOING ON WITH THE
UKRAINIANS BY A LOT OF PEOPLE I
DO NOT KNOW WHO COMMUNICATED
WHAT TO THEM.
>> THERE WERE SEVERAL PEOPLE WHO
SAID THE PRESIDENT WAS CONCERNED
ABOUT FOREIGN AID GENERALLY, HE
WAS TRYING TO BE A GOOD STEWARD
OF UNITED STATES TAXPAYER
DOLLARS.
>> I AM AWARE THAT HAS BEEN HIS
POSITION ON AID AND OTHER
MATTERS.
>> ARE YOU AWARE THAT HE WAS
ALSO INTERESTED IN BETTER
UNDERSTANDING THE CONTRIBUTIONS
OF OUR EUROPEAN ALLIES.
>> THAT I AM DEFINITELY AWARE
OF.
>> THERE WAS SOME BACK AND
FOURTH BETWEEN THE STATE
DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS TRYING TO
BETTER UNDERSTAND THAT.
>> THAT'S CORRECT.
>> HOW DO YOU KNOW THAT WAS NOT
THE REASON FOR THE HOW OLD.
>> I DO NOT.
>> BUT YOU SPECULATE THAT THERE
WAS A LINK TO THIS ANNOUNCEMENT.
>> I
PRESUMED IT YES.
>> OKAY. I WANT TO TURN QUICKLY
TO THE JULY 10TH MEETING. THE
JULY 10TH MEETING IN AMBASSADOR
BOLTON'S OFFICE INVOLVING
AMBASSADOR VOLKER, MR. DANILUK
HAS BEEN THE SUBJECT OF SOME
CONTROVERSY, AMBASSADOR VOLKER
YESTERDAY TESTIFIED THAT IT WAS
NOT UNTIL THE END
OF THE MEETING, HE SAID MR.
DANILUK WAS GOING THROUGH
DETAILED INFORMATION ABOUT THE
PLANS HE HAD. IT WAS NOT UNTIL
THE END OF THE MEETING THAT
AMBASSADOR VOLKER REMEMBERS THAT
YOU MENTIONED SOMETHING GENERAL
ABOUT INVESTIGATIONS, WHAT DO
YOU REMEMBER FROM THAT MEETING.
>> I AM NOT GOING TO DISPUTE
AMBASSADOR VOLKER'S RECOLLECTION
PARTICULARLY IF HE HAS NOTES. I
KNOW THAT THE DESIRE TO HAVE THE
2016 ELECTION DNC SERVER AND
BURISMA WERE ALREADY BEING
DISCUSSED BY THEM. AGAIN YOU
HAVE NO DIRECT CONTACT WITH RUDY
GIULIANI ON JULY 10TH. BUT
THROUGH AMBASSADOR VOLKER AND I
HAVE PROBABLY MENTIONED THAT
THIS NEEDS TO HAPPEN NORDZ TO
MOVE THE PROCESS FORWARD. THAT
SEEMED TO BE THE CONVENTIONAL
WISDOM AT THE TIME. I DO NOT
RECALL ANY ABRUPT ENDING OF THE
MEETING OR PEOPLE STORMING OUT.
THAT WOULD HAVE BEEN VERY
MEMORABLE IF SOMEONE STORMED OUT
OF A MEETING.
>> NOBODY ACCUSED YOU OF BEING
INVOLVED IN A DRUG DEAL.
>> DID DOCTOR HILL EVER RELATE
HER CONCERNS ABOUT YOU BEING
INVOLVED IN A DRUG DEAL.
>> NEVER.
>> YOU WERE SURPRISED WHEN
TESTIMONY EMERGED THAT SHE
THOUGHT THERE WAS A DRUG DEAL
GOING ON.
>> I WAS SHOCKED.
>> THAT'S A MEETING WHERE YOU
TOOK A PICTURE.
>> AMBASSADOR BOLTON OR HIS
ASSISTANT INDICATED THAT HE WAS
OUT OF TIME. HE HAD ANOTHER
MEETING TO ATTEND AND WE ALL
WALKED OUT OF THE WHITE HOUSE,
EVERYONE WAS SMILING AND HAPPY
AND WE TOOK A PICTURE ON THE
LAWN ON A NICE SUNNY DAY.
>> DID YOU RETIRE TO THE WARD
ROOM?
>> I THINK SECRETARY PERRY ASKED
TO USE THE WARD ROOM TO CONTINUE
THE CONVERSATION AND THE REAL
SUBJECT THAT WAS UNDER DEBATE
AND IT WAS NOT AN ANGRY DEBATE,
SHOULD THE CALL FROM PRESIDENT
DONALD TRUMP TO PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY BE MADE PRIOR TO THE
PARLIAMENT ELECTION IN UKRAINE
OR AFTER THE PARLIAMENTARY
ELECTIONS. THERE WAS GOOD REASON
FOR BOTH, WE FELT, AMBASSADOR
PERRY AND I AND AMBASSADOR
VOLKER THOUGHT IT WOULD HELP
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY TO SPEAK TO
HIM BEFORE THE ELECTIONS BECAUSE
IT WOULD GIVE PRESIDENT ZELENSKY
MORE COVER. OTHERS SAID IT
SHOULD BE DONE AFTER AND
ULTIMATELY IT WAS DONE AFTER.
>> THERE WAS NO MENTION OF VICE
PRESIDENT BIDEN IN THE WARD
ROOM.
>> NOT THAT I REMEMBER, NO.
>> OR ANY SPECIFIC
INVESTIGATION?
>> JUST THE GENERIC
INVESTIGATION
>> IT WAS ALWAYS BURISMA TO ME,
I DID NOT KNOW ABOUT THE
CONNECTION BETWEEN BURISMA AND
BIDEN.
>> TO YOU BET BEST OF YOUR
KNOWLEDGE YOU DID NOT UNDERSTAND
THAT ANYONE WAS
ASKING UKRAINIANS TO INVESTIGATE
US PERSONS?
>> NO.
>>
>> JUST TO BE CLEAR HERE,
ULTIMATELY, THE AD WAS LIFTED
SEPTEMBER 11TH. THERE WAS NEVER
ANY ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE
UKRAINIANS ABOUT ANY
INVESTIGATIONS THAT THEY
WERE GOING TO DO, CORRECT?
>> CORRECT.
>> THE UKRAINIANS NEVER STARTED
THE INVESTIGATION, CORRECT?
>> NOT TO MY KNOWLEDGE.
>> CONSEQUENTLY, THESE
ALLEGATIONS THAT THERE WAS A
QUID PRO QUO THAT HAD TO BE
ENFORCED BEFORE THE AID IS
RELEASED NEVER CAME TO FRUITION.
>> I DO NOT BELIEVE SO.
>>
>> I WANT TO STEP BACK A LITTLE
BIT AND ASK ABOUT THE
CONCERNS ABOUT THE DEEP ROOTED
CONCERNS ABOUT UKRAINE AND YOU
BELIEVED HIM.
>> WHEN WE HAD THE CONVERSATION
I DID.
>> WHEN YOU FIRST STARTED
DISCUSSING THE
CONCERNS THE PRESIDENT HAD WITH
CORRUPTION, BURISMA WAS NOT THE
ONLY COMPANY THAT WAS MENTIONED.
>> IT
WAS A GENERIC CORRUPTION
OLIGARCHS JUST BAD STUFF GOING
ON IN UKRAINE.
>> OTHER COMPANIES CAME, DIDN'T
THEY.
>> I DO NOT KNOW IF THEY WERE
MENTIONED SPECIFICALLY, IT MIGHT
HAVE BEEN NAFTA GAS, THAT MIGHT
HAVE BEEN ONE OF THEM.
>> AT ONE POINT IN YOUR
DEPOSITION YOU SAID NAFTA GAS
COMES UP IN EVERY CONVERSATION,
IS THAT FAIR?
>> PROBABLY.
>> YOU HAD, I GUESS DOCTOR HILL
AT ONE POINT ADISTRICTED TO YOU
THE TERMINOLOGY THAT THE
PRESIDENT HAS GIVEN YOU A LARGE
REMIX, ARE YOU FAMILIAR WITH HER
ASSERTION OF THAT.
>> I DID NOT UNDERSTAND WHAT SHE
WAS TALKING ABOUT.
>> BUT YOU HAVE AND WE GOT INTO
THIS A LITTLE BIT IN YOUR
DEPOSITION, YOU SAID THAT THE
PRESIDENT GAVE YOU A SPECIAL
ASSIGNMENT WITH REGARDS TO
UKRAINE, CORRECT?
>> WHEN THE PRESIDENT APPOINTED
ME TO BE THE US A.M. BOOS DOOR
TO
THE EUROPEAN UNION, EASY UKRAINE
WAS PART OF MY PORTFOLIO,
NUGGETS WERE THE UNIQUE
CIRCUMSTANCES WHERE THERE WAS NO
CURRENT SITTING SITTING
AMBASSADOR IN UKRAINE AND THERE
WAS A NEW PRESIDENT IN UKRAINE
AND THE DISCUSSIONS THAT WE HAD,
THE 3 AMIGOS, PERRY, AMBASSADOR
VOLKER AND I WAS THAT UKRAINE
NEEDED EXTRAORDINARY HIGH LEVEL
SUPPORT FROM THE UNITED STATES
DURING THIS PERIOD WHICH WE
CLEARED WITH BOTH AMBASSADOR
BOLTON AND CHIEF OF STAFF MICK
MULVANEY TO CONTINUE WORKING ON
IT. BY EXTENSION, IF THE
NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISER AND
THE CHIEF OF STAFF APPROVE YOUR
REMIX IT IS COMING FROM THE
PRESIDENT.
>> WHEN WE HAD THE DEPOSITION
YOU SAID I WAS SPINNING A LITTLE
BIT.
>> I WAS SPUNKING ABOUT
SOMETHING ELSE IN THE INTERVIEW
IN KIEV.
>> AND YOU FURTHER TESTIFIED
WHEN I SAID THE PRESIDENT GAVE
ME AN ASSIGNMENT IT WAS NOT THE
PRESIDENT IT WAS THE SECRETARY
THROUGH THE PRESIDENT. THAT'S
WHERE
I RECEIVED MY DIRECTION,
CORRECT.
>> CORRECT.
>> DID A.M.AMBASSADOR TAYLOR
EVER BRING ANY CONCERNS TO YOUR
ATTENTION ABOUT THE CHANNEL THAT
HE DUBBED IRREGULAR.
>> IN FACT THE OPPOSITE. WHEN HE
CAME TO POST, I THINK, I THOUGH
I CALLED HIM OR HE CALLED ME, I
THINK THAT THE SPOKE WITH
SECRETARY PERRY AND AMBASSADOR
VOLKER SEPARATELY AND IN THE
COURSE OF THE FIRST FEW WEEKS HE
WAS HIGHLY APPRECIATIVE THAT A
NEW AMBASSADOR COMING TO POST
LIKE HIMSELF WAS GETTING THE
KIND OF SUPPORT HE WAS GETTING
FROM ALL THREE OF US, HAVING A
CABINET MEMBER A SPECIAL ENVOY
AND A FELLOW AMBASSADOR HELPING
TO RAISE THE PROFILE OF UKRAINE,
HE WAS APPRECIATIVE AND
COMPLIMENTARY.
>> YOU MAINTAINED AN OPEN LINE
WITH HIM.
>> CORRECT, THERE ARE A NUMBER
OF TEXTS, SOME OF WHICH I HAVE
SOME OF WHICH I DO NOT WHERE HE
IS REACHING OUT TO ME AND THE
OTHERS FOR ADVICE AND HELP.
>> THERE ARE 215 TEXT
MESSAGES BETWEEN YOU, AMBASSADOR
VOLKER ANDAMBASSADOR TAYLOR
DURING THE EARLY AUGUST TIME
FRAME, DOES HAD A MAKE SENSE TO
YOU.
>> I THINK THAT AMBASSADOR
TAYLOR STARTED IN LATE JUNE OR
EARLY JULY.
>> HE NEVER COMMUNICATED ANY
CONCERNS THAT HE HAD ISSUES WITH
WHAT WAS GOING ON.
>> WHAT DO YOU MEAN WHAT WAS
GOING ON?
>> THIS REQUEST FOR SOME SORT OF
INVESTIGATION
>>> WHEN YOU
TAYLOR, .
>>> HE SAID LET'S GET ON THE
PHONE. RIGHT? AND INDIVIDUAL
THAT DOESN'T LIKE TO WALK
THROUGH THESE ISSUES IN TEXT
WHEN YOU CAN TALK ABOUT
IT ON THE TELEPHONE.
>> I SAY THAT WHEN IT BECOMES
MORE SUBSTANTIVE THAN A FEW
LINES OF TEXT.
>> DID YOU TALK WITH AMBASSADOR
TAYLOR?
>> I DON'T RECALL WHETHER WE
SPOKE OR WHETHER HE CALLED THE
SECRETARY. MR. CASTER WANTED TO
GET THE NOTION ACROSS THAT I
HAVE GONE AS FAR AS I CAN GO
WITH THIS. YOU ARE THE
AMBASSADOR, YOU NEED TO PICK UP
THE BALL AND RUN WITH IT.
>> OKAY. JUST GETTING BACK TO
THE IRREGULAR CHANNEL. ANYBODY
EXPRESS CONCERNS TO YOU ABOUT
THIS?
>> I'M NOT SURE HOW SOMEONE
COULD CHARACTERIZE SOMEONE AS AN
IRREGULAR CHANNEL WHEN YOU ARE
TALKING TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE
UNITED STATES, THE SECRETARY OF
STATE, THE NATIONAL SECURITY
ADVISER, THE CHIEF OF STAFF OF
THE WHITE HOUSE, THE SECRETARY
OF ENERGY. I DON'T KNOW HOW THAT
IS IRREGULAR IF A BUNCH OF FOLKS
THAT ARE NOT IN THAT CHANNEL ARE
AGGRIEVED FOR SOME REASON FOR
NOT BEING INCLUDED, I DON'T KNOW
HOW THEY CAN CONSIDER US TO BE
THE IRREGULAR CHANNEL AND THEY
TO BE THE REGULAR CHANNEL WHEN
IT'S THE
LEADERSHIP THAT MAKES THE
DECISIONS.
>> SO, THE CONCERNS, RAISED WERE
NEVER BROUGHT TO A HEAD?
>> WELL, THEY WERE NEVER RAISED.
THEY
WERE NEVER RAISED. NO ONE SAID
BACK OFF OF UKRAINE, THIS IS
DANGEROUS, YOU ARE DOING
SOMETHING UNTOWARD. WE HAVE
CONCERNING. THERE WAS A BAD
PHONE CALL JULY 25. THERE WAS
TALK OF A DRUG COCKTAIL. NO ONE
SAID TO TO ME. BY PHONE, BY
TEXT, BY EMAIL. I DON'T REMEMBER
ANYBODY SOUNDING ANY ALARM BELL.
HAD ANYONE MENTION IT, I WOULD
HAVE
SAT UP AND TAKEN NOTICE.
EVERYONE'S HAIR WAS ON FIRE BUT
NO ONE DECIDED TO TALK TO US.
>> WHEN YOU TALK IN YOUR
STATEMENT ABOUT THE ABSENCE OF
ANY CREDIBLE SUSPENSION OF
AID, IT WAS YOUR GUESS THAT IT
WOULD NOT OCCUR UNTIL A PUBLIC
STATEMENT FROM UKRAINE. I
BELIEVE YOU SAID AT THIS POINT,
YOU BELIEVED EVERYONE, EVERYONE
KNEW THIS. IS THAT CORRECT?
>> I THINK ONCE THAT POLITICAL
ARTICLE BROKE, IT STARTED MAKING
THE ROUNDS THAT IF YOU CAN'T
MAKE A WHITE HOUSE MEETING
WITHOUT THE STATEMENT, WHAT
MAKES YOU THINK YOU WILL GET A
$400 MILLION CHECK? THAT WAS MY
PRESUMPTION.
>> BUT YOU HAD NO EVIDENCE
TO PROVE THAT. CORRECT?
>> THAT'S CORRECT.
>> YOU STATED YOU HAVEN'T BEEN
ABLE TO ACCESS YOUR RECORDS? IS
THAT CORRECT?
>> NOT ALL OF THEM. THERE ARE
LOTS OF NOTES, RECORDS, READOUTS
OF CALLS. CAN'T GET TO THEM.
>> YOU ALSO STATED YOU DON'T
TAKE NOTES RIGHT?
>> I DON'T. BUT THERE ARE
LOTS OF
OTHERS OUT THERE.
>> YOU HAVE ABOUT TWO PAGES LONG
OF I DON'T RECALL.
>> IS THAT ALL?
>> ON A LOT OF THESE QUESTIONS,
THERE'S NUANCE. THERE'S
AMBIGUITY. WE
DON'T HAVE NOTES OR
RECOLLECTIONS.
>> IT'S SITUATIONAL THINGS THAT
TRIGGER MEMORY. I'M DEALING WITH
THE 28 MEMBER COUNTRIES, THE
EUROPEAN UNIONS. OTHER COUNTRIES
NOT IN THE EUROPEAN UNION THAT
ARE PART OF MY MANDATE. I'M
DEALING
WITH
THE WHITE HOUSE LEADERSHIP.
>> A PHONE CALL WITH THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES,
FILL IN THE BLANK COUNTRY, THEY
RIGHT REMEMBER
EVERY
SINGLE THING ABOUT IT. ALL OF
THESE MEETINGS WITH VERY
IMPORTANT PEOPLE START TO BLEND
TOGETHER UNTIL I HAVE SOMEONE
WHO CAN SHOW ME WHAT WE
DISCUSSED. THEN IT COMES BACK.
>> WE ARE TRYING TO GET TO THE
FACTS HERE. BILL TAYLOR KEPT
NOTES. HE BROUGHT A
LITTLE NOTEBOOK IN HIS POCKET.
WHEN I'M AT ANY DESK, I USE
THIS. GEORGE KENT WROTE
INNUMERABLE MEMOS. KATHERINE
CROFT TESTIFIED SHE DIDN'T
BELIEVE THE
GEORGE NOTES WOULD BE
ACCURATE.
THIS IS LIKE THE TRIFECTA OF
UNRELIABILITY.
>> I'M TRYING TO USE THE LIMITED
INFORMATION I HAVE TO BE AS
FORTHCOMING AS POSSIBLE WITH YOU
AND THE REST OF THE COMMITTEE
AND AS THESE RECOLLECTIONS HAVE
BEEN REFRESHED BY SUBSEQUENT
TESTIMONY, I THINK I FILLED IN A
LOT OF BLANKS.
>> A LOT OF IT IS SPECULATION. A
LOT OF IT IS YOUR GUESS. AND WE
ARE TALKING ABOUT IMPEACHMENT OF
THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES. SO THE EVIDENCE HERE
OUGHT TO BE PRETTY DARN GOOD.
>> I HAVE BEEN VERY CLEAR AS TO
WHEN I WAS PRESUMING AND I WAS
PRESUMING ON THE AID. I DID HAVE
SOME TEXT I READ FROM. I RELY ON
THOSE TEXTS BECAUSE I DON'T HAVE
ANY REASON TO BELIEVE THOSE
TEXTS WERE FALSELY SENT OR THAT
THERE WAS SOME SUBTERFUGE THERE.
THEY ARE WHAT THEY ARE, THEY SAY
WHAT THEY SAY.
>> OKAY, THANK YOU SIR.
>>> WE WILL NOW MOVE TO A SECOND
STAFF ROUND LED OF 30 MINUTES.
MR. VOLKER, I HAVE A FEW
QUESTIONS BEFORE I TURN IT BACK
TO  MR. GOLDMAN. YOU TESTIFIED
IN RESPONSE TO MY COLLEAGUE INS
THE MINORITY. SOMETHING ALONG
THE LINES OF A LOT OF PEOPLE DID
NOT MAKE THE CONNECTION BETWEEN
BARISMA AND BIDEN. A LOT OF
PEOPLE
HAVE REAL DIFFICULTY
UNDERSTANDING THAT. MORRISON
SAID IT TOOK HIM DOING A GOOGLE
SEARCH SAYING THIS IS
SIGNIFICANT. IT INVOLVES THE
BIDENS. ARE YOU SAYING DURING
ALL THIS TIME UP UNTIL THE CALL,
YOU NEVER MADE THE CONNECTION
BETWEEN BARISMA AND THE BIDENS?
YOU JUST THOUGHT THE PRESIDENT
AND RUDY GIULIANI WERE
INTERESTED IN THIS ONE UKRAINIAN
COMPANY?
>> AGAIN, MY ROLE, MR.
CHAIRMAN, WAS
JUST TO GET THE MEETING.
>> MY QUESTION IS ARE YOU SAYING
MONTHS AND MONTHS AND EVERYTHING
RUDY GIULIANI SAID ON TV, THAT
YOU NEVER PUT BARISM AGENT TO
WITH THE BIDENS?
>> I DIDN'T. AND I WASN'T PAYING
ATTENTION TO WHAT  MR. GIULIANI
WAS SAYING ON TV. WE WERE
TALKING TO HIM DIRECTLY.
>> LET ME ASK YOU THIS. MR.
VOLKER TESTIFIED YESTERDAY TO A
SIMILAR EPIPHANY FOR LACK OF A
BETTER WORD. IN HINDSIGHT, I
UNDERSTAND THE OTHERS SAW THE
IDEA OF OTHERS INVESTIGATING
CORRUPTION AS EQUIVALENT TO
INVESTIGATING FORMER VICE
PRESIDENT BIDEN. I
SAW
THEM AS VERY DIFFERENT.
I SHOULD HAVE SEEN THE
CONNECTIONS DIFFERENTLY. AND IF
I HAD,
I
WOULD HAVE SAID SO.
>> I THINK, REFERRING TO A DRUG
DEAL, A COMMENT, BETWEEN YOU AN
MR. MULVANEY. MR. BOLTON SAID HE
DIDN'T WANT TO BE PART OF A DRUG
DEAL THAT SONDLAND AND MULVANEY
WERE COOKING UP. NO ONE THINKS
THEY ARE TALKING ABOUT A LITERAL
DRUG DEAL HERE. THE IMPORT I
THINK
OF THE AMBASSADOR'S COMMENTS IS
QUITE CLEAR. HE BELIEVED THIS
KID QUO PRO AS YOU DESCRIBED IT
OVER A MEETING, THE
INVESTIGATIONS TO GET THE
MEETING WAS NOT SOMETHING HE
WANTED TO BE A PART OF. HE MAKES
REFERENCE IN THE DRUG DEAL
COOKED UP BY YOU AND MULVANEY.
IT'S THE REFERENCE TO MULVANEY I
WANT
TO ASK YOU ABOUT. YOU TESTIFIED
THAT MULVANEY WAS AWARE OF THIS
CONDITION THAT THE UKRAINIANS
HAD TO MEET, ANNOUNCING THE
PUBLIC INVESTIGATION. IS THAT
RIGHT?
>> YEAH, A LOT OF PEOPLE WERE
AWARE OF IT.
>> INCLUDING MR. MULVANEY?
>> CORRECT.
>> AND INCLUDING THE
SECRETARY OF STATE.
>> CORRECT.
>> HAVE YOU SEEN THE ACTING
CHIEF OF STAFF'S PRESS
CONFERENCE IN WHICH HE
ACKNOWLEDGED THE MILITARY AID
WAS WITHHELD IN PART BECAUSE OF
A DESIRE TO GET THAT
2016 INVESTIGATION YOU TALKED
ABOUT?
>> I DON'T THINK I SAW IT LIVE,
BUT LATER.
>> YOU SAW HIM ACKNOWLEDGE
PUBLICLY WHAT  MR. MULVANEY
UNDERSTAND THAT TWO PLUS TWO
EQUALS FOUR. IS THAT RIGHT?
>> I DIDN'T KNOW THAT THE AID
WAS CONCLUSIVELY TIED. I WAS
PRESUMING. HE WAS IN A POSITION
TO SAY YES IT WAS AND NO IT
WASN'T AND HE SAID YES IT WAS.
>> MR. GOLDMAN.
>> THANK YOU MR. CHAIRMAN AND
AMBASSADOR SONDLAND. WE
APPRECIATE YOUR EFFORTS TO
REFRESH THE DOCUMENTS. WE SHARE
YOUR FRUSTRATION IN NOT HAVING
THE DOCUMENTS TO GUIDE THIS
INVESTIGATION. SO WE DO
APPRECIATE THOSE EFFORTS. ONE OF
THE DOCUMENTS YOU PROVIDED TO US
GOES BACK TO A CONVERSATION YOU
AND THE CHAIRMAN WERE HAVING
ABOUT  MR. MULVANEY AND YOU HAD
BEEN TRYING FOR SOME TIME BEFORE
THE JULY 25 CALL TO SET UP THAT
CALL. IS THAT RIGHT?
>> TO SET UP THE CALL BETWEEN
PRESIDENT TRUMP AND PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY. YES. YES.
>> AND I WANT TO SHOW YOU AN
EMAIL THAT YOU REFERENCE IN YOUR
OPENING STATEMENT. THAT
IS A JULY 19th
EMAIL. AND WHO IS THIS FROM?
>> IS IT FOR ME? I DON'T KNOW.
>> IT'S FROM YOU I BELIEVE.
>> THAT'S FROM ME TO THE GROUP.
>> NOW, WHO WAS THE GROUP?
>>
PEOPLE MENTION AN EMAIL. BLAIR,
MCKENNA, BLAIR, POMPEO.
>> AND WHO IS ROBERT BLAIR?
>> I BELIEVE HE IS A DEPUTY
CHIEF OF STAFF OR AN ADVISE TORE
THE CHIEF OF STAFF.
>> AND YOU ALREADY TOLD US THAT
LISA KENNA IS THE SECRETARY FOR
SECRETARY POMPEO. WHO IS BRIAN
MCCORMICK?
>> HE WAS THE CHIEF OF STAFF FOR
SECRETARY PERRY.
>> AND WE SEE MR. MULVANEY AND
SECRETARY POMPEO. CAN YOU READ
WHAT YOU WROTE ON JULY 19 TO
THIS GROUP, PLEASE?
>> HE IS PREPARED TO RECEIVE
POTUS CALL. WILL ASSURE HIM HE
INTENDS TO
RUN A FULLY TRANSPARENT
INVESTIGATION. HE WOULD PUT OUT
MEDIA ABOUT A FRIENDLY
PRODUCTIVE CALL. NO DETAILS.
PRIOR TO UKRAINE ELECTION ON
SUNDAY.
>> SUNDAY WAS THE 21st. THE DAY
OF THE PARLIAMENTARY ELECTIONS
IN UKRAINE. IS THAT RIGHT?
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
>> WHEN YOU SAY WILL ASSURE HIM
HE PLANS TO RUN A
FULLY TRANSPARENT INVESTIGATION
AND WILL "TURN OVER EVERY
STONE."
>> I'M REFERRING TO THE NC
SERVER INVESTIGATIONS.
>> LATER THAT EVENING. SECRETARY
PERRY RESPONDS JUST TO YOU AND
BRIAN MCCORMIYK SAYING MICK
CONFIRMED THE CALL BEING SET UP
TOMORROW BY NSC. AND THEN A
LITTLE LATER,  MR. MULVANEY
REPLIES TO ALL SAYING I ASKED
NSC TO SET IT UP FOR TOMORROW.
WERE THESE THE ONLY RESPONSES
YOU RECEIVED TO THIS EMAIL?
>> I DON'T KNOW IF I HAVE THEM,
I WOULD SHOW THEM. I DON'T KNOW.
>> NO ONE WROTE BACK TO YOU AND
SAID WHAT ABOUT THESE
INVESTIGATIONS AND TURNING OVER
EVERY STONE?
>> THERE WAS A CHAIN WHERE I
BELIEVE AMBASSADOR BOLTON PUSHED
BACK AND SAID HE DID NOT WANT A
CALL TO PRESIDENT ZELENSKY MADE
BY PRESIDENT TRUMP MADE UNTIL
AFTER THE INVESTIGATION.
>> SO THAT'S WHY IT WAS MOVED TO
THE 25th.
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
>> BUT AMBASSADOR BOLTON IS NOT
ON THIS EMAIL IS HE?
>> I DON'T THINK HE IS. NO.
>> NOW YOU WERE ASKED BY MR.
CASTOR IF THERE WERE ANY OTHER
KEY WITNESSES TO HELP WITH OUR
INVESTIGATION. AND YOU MENTIONED
BRIAN MCCORMICK. THE CHIEF OF
STAFF FOR SECRETARY PERRY. YOU
WERE AWARE THE COMMITTEE
SUBPOENAED HIM AND HE REFUSED TO
COME TESTIFY?
>> I WAS NOT.
>> ARE YOU AWARE MR. MULVANEY
WAS SUBPOENAED AND REFUSED TO
COME TESTIFY?
>> I DID READ THAT IN THE
NEWSPAPER.
>> ARE YOU ALSO AWARE THAT
ROBERT BLAIR WAS SUBPOENAED AND
REFUSED TO TESTIFY?
>> I'M AWARE OF THAT.
>> AND SECRETARY PERRY WAS ASKED
TO COME TESTIFY AND REFUSED?
>> I AM AWARE OF THAT AS WELL.
>> WOULD YOU INCLUDE THEM AND
SECRETARY POMPEO AS KEY
WITNESSES THAT WOULD PROVIDE
SOME ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ON
THIS INQUIRY?
>> I THINK THEY WOULD.
>> NOW, THIS WAS NOT THE FIRST
TIME AS YOU INDICATED THAT  MR.
MULVANEY HEARD ABOUT THESE
INVESTIGATIONS INTO BARISMA AND
THE 2016 ELECTION. IS THAT
RIGHT?
>> I DON'T KNOW WHAT MR.
MULVANEY HEARD OR DIDN'T HEAR. I
THINK THERE'S BEEN A HUGE AMOUNT
OF EXAGGERATION OVER MY CONTACT
WITH  MR. MULVANEY. IT'S BEEN
LIMITED.
>> HE INDICATED A FAMILIARITY
WITH WHAT YOU WERE TALKING ABOUT
IN THIS JULY 19 EMAIL.
>> I THINK MR. MULVANEY WAS IN
THE MAY 23rd BRIEFING WITH
PRESIDENT TRUMP. I DON'T
REMEMBER BECAUSE THERE WERE
PEOPLE SITTING BEHIND US COMING
AND GOING WHEN WE WERE SITTING
IN FRONT OF PRESIDENT TRUMP'S
DESK.
>> NOW, YOU SAID THAT YOU DON'T
HAVE A RECOLLECTION OF
REFERENCING MULVANEY IN THE JULY
10 MEETING IN AMBASSADOR
BOLTON'S OFFICE. IS THAT RIGHT?
>> I DON'T RECALL.
>> SO WHEN BOTH FIONA HILL AND
COLONEL VINDMAN RESPONDED IN
A QUESTION ABOUT SCHEDULING A
WHITE HOUSE VISIT THAT YOU SAID
WELL, I SPOKE WITH  MR. MULVANEY
AND IT WILL BE SCHEDULED AFTER
THEY ANNOUNCE THESE
INVESTIGATIONS, DO YOU HAVE ANY
REASON TO DISPUTE THAT
CHARACTERIZATION?
>> I DON'T HAVE ANY REASON TO
AGREE OR DISPUTE. I JUST DON'T
REMEMBER.
>> IF THEY REMEMBERED AND SPOKE
TO THE NSC LEGAL ADVISER ABOUT
IT, YOU WOULD TRUST THAT
WHATEVER THEY RELAYED TO THE NSC
LEGAL ADVISER WOULD LIKELY BE AN
ACCURATE REFLECTION?
>> I TRUST THEY RELAYED IT TO
THE LEGAL ADVISER. I DON'T KNOW
WHETHER I SAID IT OR
WHICH CONVERSATION. I HAVE HAD
VERY LIMITED CONVERSATIONS WITH
MR. MULVANEY.
>> THIS EMAIL SAID YOU SPOKE
WITH ZELENSKY AND RELAYED WHAT
HE SAID TO VARIOUS SENIOR
OFFICIALS.
>> WHICH EMAIL?
>> THE JULY 19 EMAIL. WHERE YOU
SAY, THE SUBJECT IS I TALKED TO
ZELENSKY JUST NOW.
>> YEAH. I GOT IT.
>> WAS THERE SOME SORT OF
ASSURANCE THAT PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY NEEDED TO PROVIDE ABOUT
WHAT HE WOULD SAY TO PRESIDENT
TRUMP IN ORDER JUST
TO GET THE PHONE CALL?
>> I THINK THAT PART WAS VERBAL
AND THEN THERE WERE
A LOT OF COMMUNICATIONS GOING
AROUND BACK AND FORTH WITH THE
UKRAINIANS AND SOMEONE CAME UP
WITH THE IDEA OF A DRAFT
STATEMENT. SO THERE WOULD BE NO
MISUNDERSTANDING ABOUT WHAT IN
FACT THE UKRAINIANS WOULD SAY
AND BE WILLING TO SAY THAT WE
COULD RELY ON AND NEGOTIATE
SOMETHING ON A PIECE OF PAPER.
>> JUST TO PLACE YOU IN TIME, WE
WILL GET TO THAT DRAFT STATEMENT
WHICH WAS IN AUGUST. THIS WAS
JULY 19, BEFORE THE JULY 25
CALL. DO YOU REMEMBER WHETHER
THERE WAS A NEED FROM ANY OF THE
WHITE
HOUSE OFFICIALS OR OTHER
NATIONAL SECURITY OFFICIALS FOR
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY TO PROVIDE
SOME ASSURANCE OF WHAT HE WOULD
SAY TO PRESIDENT TRUMP BEFORE A
PHONE CALL? NOT THE MEETING BUT
A PHONE CALL WAS SCHEDULED?
>> THERE WAS INITIALLY,
APPARENTLY A CONDITION, BUT THAT
CONDITION WAS OBVIOUSLY DROPPED
BECAUSE THE PHONE CALL TOOK
PLACE AND THERE WAS NO SUCH
STATEMENT MADE. THE PHONE CALL
TOOK PLACE AS YOU SAID ON THE
25th OF JULY.
>> WHEN YOU SAY THERE WAS NO
SUCH STATEMENT THAT TOOK PLACE,
WHAT DO YOU MEAN?
>> THE UKRAINIANS NEVER MADE
THEIR PUBLIC STATEMENT PRIOR TO
THE PHONE CALL IN THE 25th OF
JULY.
>> BUT WE ARE NOT TALKING ABOUT
A PUBLIC STATEMENT. WHAT I WAS
ASKING IS WHETHER PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY NEEDED TO RELAY TO YOU
OR THE OTHER AMERICAN OFFICIALS
THAT HE WOULD ASSURE PRESIDENT
TRUMP THAT HE WOULD DO THESE
INVESTIGATIONS IN A PHONE CALL.
>> IN MY EMAIL, I OBVIOUSLY HAD
JUST SPOKEN WITH HIM. HE BEING
ZELENSKY. AND HE SAID THAT HE
WAS PREPARED TO RECEIVE THE CALL
AND HE WOULD MAKE THE ASSURANCES
TO PRESIDENT TRUMP ON THAT CALL.
AND THEN, PRESUMABLY, THAT WOULD
THEN LEAD TO THE WHITE HOUSE
MEETING.
>> AND YOU HAD BEEN DISCUSSING
THIS PHONE CALL FOR
SEVERAL WEEKS NOW?
>> I THINK WITH VOLKER, WITH
PERRY, WITH GIULIANI.
>> AND RIGHT AFTER YOU SENT THIS
EMAIL ASSURING THE OTHERS THAT
HE WILL DISCUSS THE
INVESTIGATIONS, AND WILL TURN
OVER EVERY STONE, THE ELECTION
INVESTIGATIONS IN 2016,  MR.
MULVANEY RESPONDED THAT HE ASKED
TO SET UP THE CALL FOR THE NEXT
DAY. IS THAT RIGHT?
>> THAT'S WHAT IT SAYS.
>> NOW LET'S GO TO THAT PRESS
STATEMENT YOU WERE DISCUSSING IN
AUGUST. AND, YOU TESTIFIED I
BELIEVE THAT, YOU UNDERSTAND
THAT RUDY GIULIANI WAS
REPRESENTING THE PRESIDENT'S
INTEREST WITH REGARD TO UKRAINE.
IS THAT CORRECT?
>> THAT'S WHAT I UNDERSTOOD.
>> WHAT DO YOU MEAN WE ALL?
>> PERRY, VOLKER, MYSELF.
>> IN AUGUST, YOU AND AMBASSADOR
VOLKER WERE COORDINATING WITH
ANDRE YERMACH, THE ZELENSKY
AIDE, ABOUT A PRESS STATEMENT. I
WANT TO PULL UP SOME OF THE TEXT
EXCHANGES YOU ARE REFERRING TO
WHICH AS YOU ACKNOWLEDGE HELPS
YOU REFRESH YOUR RECOLLECTION.
IS THAT RIGHT?
>> I THINK TAYLOR WAS INVOLVED
IN THOSE INITIAL DISCUSSIONS AS
WELL.
>> HE IS NOT ON ANY OF THESE
TEXT MESSAGES. PERHAPS HE WAS
AND DOES NOT REMEMBER THAT. BUT
LET'S GO
TO THE FIRST ONE. ON AUGUST 9.
>> OKAY.
>> THERE IS AN EXCHANGE BETWEEN
AMBASSADOR VOLKER AND YOU.
WHERE, YOU ARE DISCUSSING
SETTING UP, WE'LL TRY TO BRING
IT UP IN A SECOND, BUTLY
SUMMARIZE FOR YOU. YOU ARE
DISCUSSING TRYING TO SET UP A
WHITE HOUSE MEETING. HERE IT IS.
AND, YOU SAY MORRISON READY TO
GET DATES AS SOON AS HE
CONFIRMS. HE SAID EXCELLENT, HOW
DID YOU SWAY HIM? I DIDN'T. I
THINK POTUS WANT IT IS
DELIVERABLE. WHAT DID YOU MEAN?
>> THE COMMITMENT TO DO THE
INVESTIGATION.
>> WHAT DID YOU MEAN?
>> I DON'T RECALL. I MAY HAVE
HEARD A CONVERSATION OR HEARD
FRIT SOMEONE ELSE. I DON'T
RECALL. WITHOUT ALL THESE
RECORDS.
>> GOING TO THE NEXT EXHIBIT,
EXHIBIT 10, WHERE, OR AUGUST 10
RATHER. THIS IS BETWEEN YOU AND
ANDRE YERMACH. WHAT DID YOU SAY
INITIALLY? IN THIS EXCHANGE?
>> HOW WAS YOUR CONVERSATION.
>> AND HE RESPONDS HELLO, GOOD.
MY PROPOSAL, WE RECEIVE DATE AND
MAKE GENERAL STATEMENT WITH
DISGUISING. ONCE WE HAVE A DATE,
WE WILL CALL FOR A PRESS
BRIEFING ANNOUNCING UPCOMING
VISIT AND OUTLINING VISION FOR
THE REBOOT OF U.S. UKRAINE
RELATIONSHIP INCLUDING BARISMA
AND ELECTION MEDDLING. AND YOU
RESPOND GOT IT. THAT WAS YOUR
UNDERSTANDING OF WHAT THIS
STATEMENT HAD TO SAY TO SATISFY
MR. GIULIANI? IS THAT RIGHT?
>> YES.
>> AND TO SATISFY THE POTUS
DELIVERABLE?
>> YES.
>> NOW, THE NEXT DAY YOU WROTE
AN EMAIL
TO ULRICH AND LISA. ARE YOU ABLE
TO SEE THAT ON YOUR SCREEN?
>> YES. I CAN.
>> WHAT IS THE SUBJECT
OF THE EMAIL?
>> UKRAINE.
>> CAN YOU READ WHAT YOU WROTE
THERE?
>> MIKE, AND I'M REFERRING TO
SECRETARY POMPEO. KURT AND I
INITIATED A STATEMENT FROM
ZELENSKY. WE DELIVERED FOR OUR
REVIEW IN A DAY OR TWO. CONTENTS
WILL HOPEFULLY MAKE THE
BOSS HAPPY ENOUGH. THEY ARE
PLANNING A BIG PRESSER ON
SPECIFICS NEXT WEEK.
>> AND WHAT DID THE SPECIFICS
REPRESENT?
>> THE 2016 AND THE BARISMA.
>> AND WHEN YOU SAY THE BOSS,
WHO
DO YOU MEAN BY THAT?
>> PRESIDENT TRUMP.
>> AND THE INVITATION IS WHAT?
>> TO THE WHITE HOUSE MEETING.
>> AND LISA KENNA SAYSLY PASS TO
S. AND S IS SECRETARY POMPEO?
>> CORRECT.
>> THANK YOU. NOW, TWO DAYS
LATER, YOU HAVE
A TEXT EXCHANGE WITH AMBASSADOR
VOLKER AGAIN. AND, THIS IS AT
THE END OF IT. BUT, THE EARLIER
TEXT WHICH WE DON'T HAVE HERE,
YOU MAY RECALL INCLUDES THE
REVISED PRESS STATEMENT
INVOLVING BARISMA AND THE 2016
ELECTION?
>> YES. IF I COULD SEE IT, THAT
WOULD BE HELPFUL. BUT YES.
>> SO, YOU ULTIMATELY REMEMBERED
AFTER YOUR CONVERSATION WITH
MR. GIULIANI, YOU PASSED ALONG A
STATEMENT TO THE UKRAINIANS THAT
INCLUDED BARISMA IN THE 2016
ELECTION. RIGHT?
>> I BELIEVE STATEMENTS WERE
BEING PASSED BACK AND FORTH
BETWEEN VOLKER AND UKRAINIANS
AND THE OTHERS TO NEGOTIATE
ACCEPTABLE LANGUAGE.
>> AND ULTIMATELY, THAT
STATEMENT WAS NOT ISSUED WAS IT?
>> CORRECT.
>> AND THE WHITE
HOUSE MEETING STILL HASN'T
OCCURRED. BUT YOU UNDERSTAND AT
THAT TIME THAT IT WAS THE
PRESIDENT'S DIRECTION AND
INSTRUCTION THAT A WHITE HOUSE
MEETING WITH PRESIDENT ZELENSKY
WOULD NOT OCCUR UNTIL PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY ANNOUNCED PUBLICLY THE
INVESTIGATIONS THAT THE
PRESIDENT WANTED. IS THAT RIGHT?
>> THAT IS CORRECT.
>> AND YOU KNOW THE
INVESTIGATIONS THE PRESIDENT
WANTED WHEREAS AN INVESTIGATION
INTO THE BIDENS AND AN
INVESTIGATION INTO THE 2016
ELECTION.
>>
I KNOW THAT NOW. YES.
>> I WILL MOVE AHEAD TO AUGUST
22. AND YOU WROTE AN EMAIL TO
SECRETARY POMPEO, DIRECTLY TO
SECRETARY POMPEO. SEEING LISA
KENNA. THE SUBJECT OF ZELENSKY.
COULD YOU PLEASE READ WHAT YOU
WROTE TO SECRETARY POMPEO?
>> MIKE, SHOULD WE BLOCK TIME IN
WARSAW FOR A PULL ASIDE FOR
POTUS TO MEET ZELENSKY? I WOULD
ASK ZELENSKY TO LOOK HIM IN THE
EYE AND TELL HIM THAT ONCE
UKRAINE'S NEW JUSTICE FOLKS ARE
IN PLACE, MID SEPTEMBER,
ZELENSKY SHOULD BE ABLE TO MOVE
FORWARD PUBLICLY AND WITH
CONFIDENCE ON THESE ISSUES OF
IMPORTANCE TO POTUS AND TO THE
U.S. HOPEFULLY, THAT WILL BREAK
THE LOG JAM.
>> AND SECRETARY POMPEO RESPONDS
TO YOU, THREE MINUTES LATER,
YES. I WANT TO UNPACK THIS A
LITTLE BIT. YOU
SAID THAT IN THE MIDDLE, ONCE
UKRAINE'S JUSTICE FOLKS WERE IN
PLACE, WHAT DID YOU MEAN BY
THAT?
>> THE PROSECUTOR WORKING FOR
ZELENSKY, THE OLD PROSECUTOR, I
BELIEVE HIS TERM WAS UP OR HE
WAS BEING LET GO. ZELENSKY
WANTED TO WAIT UNTIL HIS PERSON
WAS IN PLACE.
>> SO ONCE THAT NEW PROSECUTOR
WAS IN PLACE, THEN, Z, PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY SHOULD BE ABLE TO MOVE
FORWARD PUBLICLY AND WITH
CONFIDENCE ON THOSE ISSUES OF
IMPORTANCE TO POTUS. WHAT DID
YOU MEAN BY THOSE ISSUES OF
IMPORTANCE TO POTUS?
>> THE 2016 ELECTION AND THE
BARISMA INVESTIGATION.
>> WERE YOU AWAR THAT SECRETARY
POMPEO HAD LISTENED IN TO THE
JULY 25 PHONE CALL?
>> I WAS NOT.
>> IF HE HAD. DO YOU BELIEVE HE
FULLY UNDERSTAND WHAT THE ISSUES
OF IMPORTANCE TO POTUS WOULD BE?
>> I CAN'T CHARACTERIZE HIS
STATE OF MIND. HE LISTENED IN ON
THE PHONE CALL AND CONCLUDED
WHAT HE CONCLUDED.
>> NOW THAT YOU HAVE READ THE
PHONE CALL, IT IS CLEAR WHAT THE
ISSUES OF IMPORTANCE ARE TO
POTUS.
>> YES.
>> BIDEN INVESTIGATION IN THE
2016 ELECTION INVESTIGATION.
>> THAT'S CORRECT.
>> IT SAYS HOPEFULLY, THAT WILL
BREAK THE LOG JAM. BY THIS
POINT, YOU WERE AWARE SECURITY
ASSISTANCE HAD BEEN ON HOLD FIVE
WEEKS. IS THAT RIGHT?
>> I BECAME AWARE
ON THE 18th OF JULY.
>> AND YOU UNDERSTOOD THERE WAS
A LOT OF ACTIVITY IN THE STATE
DEPARTMENT AND ELSEWHERE TO GET
THAT HOLD LIFTED.
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
>> DOES ANYBODY IN TINNER
AGENCY, THE NATIONAL SECURITY
APPARATUS WANTED THE AID TO YO
TO UKRAINE?
>> CORRECT.
>> WHAT DID YOU MEAN
BY LOG JAM?
>> I MEANT ANYTHING HOLDING UP
GOING FORWARD ON THE MEETING AND
UKRAINE, THE U.S. RELATIONSHIP.
>> AND WHAT WAS HOLDING THAT UP?
>> AT THAT POINT, IT WAS THE
STATEMENTS ABOUT BARISMA AND THE
2016 ELECTION.
>> WHAT WAS BEING HELD UP?
>> WELL THE AID WAS BEING HELD
UP OBVIOUSLY.
>> FOUR DAYS LATER YOU SAID IN
YOUR OPENING STATEMENT THAT YOU
SENT RUDY GIULIANI'S CONTACT
INFORMATION TO JOHN BOLTON. IS
THAT RIGHT?
>> I DID.
>> DO YOU KNOW WHY HE ASKED FOR
THAT?
>> NO IDEA.
>> DID YOU KNOW HE WAS GOING TO
UKRAINE THE NEXT DAY?
>> I KNEW HE WAS ABOUT TO GO TO
UKRAINE. I DIDN'T KNOW WHEN HIS
TRIP WAS. BUT I THOUGHT IT WAS
KIND OF AN ODD REQUEST GIVEN
THAT THE WHITE HOUSE CAN PRETTY
MUCH GET ANYONE'S PHONE NUMBER
THEY WANT.
>> NOW, IN THIS EMAIL TO
SECRETARY POMPEO, YOU REFERENCE
A TRIP TO WARSAW. ULTIMATELY,
THE VICE PRESIDENT WENT ON THAT
TRIP.
>> THAT'S CORRECT.
>> AND THAT WAS THE CONVERSATION
YOU TALKED ABOUT
WHERE YOU TESTIFIED EARLIER TO,
WE NEED TO GET THESE
INVESTIGATIONS FROM UKRAINE IN
ORDER TO RELEASE THE AID IN A
PREMEETING?
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
>> AND VICE PRESIDENT PENCE JUST
NODDED?
>> HE HEARD WHAT I SAID.
>> AND DIDN'T RESPOND IN ANY
WAY?
>> I DONE RECALL ANY SUBSTANTIVE
RESPONSE.
>> BUT YOU NEVER SPECIFICALLY
REFERENCED THE BIDENS OR BARISMA
IN THAT MEETING DID YOU?
>> I DON'T
REMEMBER EVER MENTIONING THE
BIDENS. I MAY HAVE MENTIONED
BURISMA.
>> AND YOU WERE NOT ALONE WITH
VICE PRESIDENT PENCE.
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
>> AND YOU KNOW IN THAT MEETING
WITH PRESIDENT ZELENSKY, THAT
VICE PRESIDENT PENCE DID NOT
MENTION THESE INVESTIGATIONS AT
ALL. RIGHT?
>> I DON'T
RECALL HIM MENTIONING THE
INVESTIGATIONS.
>> SO, YOUR TESTIMONY IS JUST
SIMPLY IN A PREMEETING WITH A
GROUP OF AMERICANS BEFORE THE
BILATERAL MEETING. YOU
REFERENCED THE FACT UKRAINE
NEEDED TO DO THESE
INVESTIGATIONS IN ORDER TO LIFT
THE AID.
>> I THINK I REFERENCED. I
DIDN'T SAY UKRAINE HAD TO DO THE
INVESTIGATIONS. WE HEARD FROM
MR. GIULIANI THAT WAS THE CASE.
>> SO THAT HELPS INFORM YOUR
PRESUMPTION. CORRECT?
>> CORRECT.
>> SO IT WASN'T REALLY A
PRESUMPTION. YOU HEARD FROM  MR.
GIULIANI.
>> I DIDN'T HEAR FROM MR.
GIULIANI ABOUT THE AID, I HEARD
FROM BURISMA IN 2016.
>> AND YOU UNDERSTOOD THAT THE
AID WAS THERE AS WELL.
>> THAT WAS THE PROBLEM, MR.
GOLDMAN. NO ONE TOLD ME THE AID
WAS TIED DIRECTLY TO ANYTHING. I
WAS PRESUMING IT WAS.
>> I WANT TO GO AHEAD. I WANT TO
GO BACK ON SEPTEMBER 1. I WILL
JUMP AHEAD TO SEPTEMBER 7. OKAY?
WHEN WE DISCUSSED THE TEXT
MESSAGES WHERE YOU SAID THERE
WERE MULTIPLE CONVERSATIONS WITH
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY AND POTUS.
YOU RECALL THAT?
>> DO YOU HAVE THE EMAIL BY ANY
CHANCE?
>> WE CAN TRY TO PULL IT NONE A
SECOND. BUT YOU DON'T REMEMBER I
SHOWED IT TO YOU?
>> YES. GO AHEAD WITH YOUR
QUESTION.
>> AND YOU CONFIRMED THAT LIKELY
MEANT THAT YOU SPOKE WITH
PRESIDENT TRUMP. IS THAT RIGHT?
>> AGAIN, IF MY EMAIL SAID I
SPOKE WITH HIM, I DID.
>> YOU ARE RELYING ON THE TEXT
AND EMAILS YOU WERE
ABLE TO REVIEW. RIGHT?
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
>> IF SOMEONE ELSE HAD ANY
NOTES, YOU WOULD PRESUME WHAT
THEY WERE SAYING WAS ACCURATE
RIGHT?
>> IF THEY HAD TEXTS OR EMAILS I
WOULD. IF THEY HAD NOTES, I
DON'T KNOW. SOME PEOPLE'S NOTES
ARE GREAT, SOME PEOPLE'S AREN'T.
>> BUT CERTAINLY, IT WOULD BE A
HELPFUL REFRESHER TO ANYONE'S
MEMORY.
>> INCLUDING MY OWN.
>> YOU HAD A CONVERSATION ON
SEPTEMBER 7 ACCORDING TO BOTH
AMBASSADOR TAYLOR AND TIM
MORRISON
WITH TIM MORRISON WHERE  MR.
TRUMP TOLD YOU HE WAS NOT ASKING
FOR A QUID PRO QUO. BUT HE
INSISTED THAT PRESIDENT ZELENSKY
GO TO A MICROPHONE AND SAY THAT
HE IS OPENING INVESTIGATIONS OF
BIDEN AND 2016 ELECTION
INTERFERENCE AND THAT PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY SHOULD WANT TO DO THIS
HIMSELF. YOU DON'T HAVE ANY
REASON TO DISPUTE BOTH
AMBASSADOR TAYLOR'S AND  MR.
MORRISON'S TESTIMONY ABOUT THAT
CONVERSATION DO YOU?
>> NO.
>> ON SEPTEMBER 8, YOU HAD A
CONVERSATION DIRECTLY WITH
AMBASSADOR TAYLOR ABOUT THIS
SAME PHONE
CALL WHERE AMBASSADOR TAILOR
CONFIRMED, PRESIDENT TRUMP WAS
ADAMANT THAT PRESIDENT ZELENSKY
HIMSELF, MEANING NOT THE
PROSECUTOR GENERAL, HAD TO
"CLEAR THINGS UP
AND DO IT IN PUBLIC." YOU DON'T
HAVE ANY REASON TO BELIEVE HIS
TESTIMONY BASED ON HIS NOTES.
>> I DON'T KNOW IF I GOT THAT
FROM PRESIDENT TRUMP OR IF I GOT
IT FROM GIULIANI. THAT'S THE
PART I'M NOT CLEAR ON.
>> WELL AMBASSADOR TAYLOR IS
QUITE CLEAR YOU SAID PRESIDENT
TRUMP. MORRISON IS ALSO CLEAR
YOU SAID PRESIDENT TRUMP. YOU
DON'T HAVE ANY REASON TO DISPUTE
THEIR RECOLLECTIONS DO YOU?
>> NO, I JUST PERSONALLY CAN'T
REMEMBER WHERE I GOT IT FROM.
>> AND YOU TOLD AMBASSADOR
TAYLOR IN THAT SAME
CONVERSATION. YOU TOLD PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY AND ANDRE YERMACH,
THOUGH THIS WAS NOT
A QUID PRO QUO AS THE PRESIDENT
CLEARLY TOLD YOU, IT WAS HOWEVER
REQUIRED FOR PRESIDENT ZELENSKY
TO CLEAR THINGS UP IN PUBLIC OR
THERE COULD BE A  STALEMATE. YOU
DON'T HAVE ANY REASON TO DISPUTE
THAT DO YOU?
>> NO.
>> AND YOU UNDERSTOOD THE
STALEMATE REFERENCED THE AID.
CORRECT?
>> YES.
>> AND YOU WERE TRYING TO
EXPLAIN WHAT PRESIDENT TRUMP'S
VIEW OF THIS WAS. YOU SAID
PRESIDENT TRUMP IS A
BUSINESSMAN. WHEN A BUSINESSMAN
IS ABOUT TO SIGN A CHECK TO
SOMEONE WHO OWES HIM SOMETHING.
THE BUSINESSMAN ASKS THE PERSON
TO PAY UP BEFORE SIGNING THE
CHECK. YOU RECALL SAYING THAT TO
AMBASSADOR TAYLOR?
>> I DON'T RECALL IT
SPECIFICALLY. BUT I MAY HAVE.
>> AND AMBASSADOR VOLKER ALSO
SAID YOU DID.
>> OKAY.
>> JUST TO SUMMARIZE HERE, BY
THE END OF THE FIRST WEEK OF
SEPTEMBER BEFORE THE AID HAD
BEEN RELEASED, YOU HAD EXPRESSED
TWICE TO THE UKRAINIANS THAT YOU
UNDERSTOOD THAT THE
INVESTIGATIONS NEEDED TO BE
PUBLICLY ANNOUNCED ON CNN IN
ORDER FOR THE AID TO
BE RELEASED. DO YOU RECALL THAT?
>> THE UKRAINIANS SAID TO ME OR
AMBASSADOR VOLKER THAT THEY HAD
PLANNED TO DO AN INTERVIEW
ANYWAY ON CNN AND THEY WOULD USE
THAT OCCASION FOR THESE ITEMS.
>> AND THOUGH YOU HAD CALCULATED
TWO PLUS TWO TO EQUAL FOUR, AND
YOU BELIEVE THE AID WAS
CONDITION ON THE INVESTIGATIONS,
YOU HAD A PHONE CALL WITH
PRESIDENT TRUMP THAT YOU RELAYED
TO BOTH TIM MORRISON AND
AMBASSADOR TAYLOR WHOSE ACCOUNTS
OF THAT CONVERSATION YOU DO NOT
DISPUTE. WHERE PRESIDENT TRUMP
CONFIRMED THAT PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY NEEDED TO PUBLICLY
ANNOUNCE THE INVESTIGATIONS OR
OTHERWISE THE OBVIOUS
IMPLICATION OF THE THE STALEMATE
WAS THAT THE AID WOULD NOT BE
RELEASED.
>> AGAIN, THE IMPLICATION. I
DIDN'T HEAR FROM PRESIDENT TRUMP
THAT THE AID WOULD BE HELD UP
UNTIL THE STATEMENT WAS MADE.
>> BUT YOU AGREE WITH WHAT
MORRISON AND TAYLOR TESTIFIED TO
ABOUT THE CONVERSATION YOU HAD
WITH PRESIDENT TRUMP. IS THAT
RIGHT?
>> REMIND ME AGAIN. I DON'T WANT
TO MISSPEAK.
>> YOU JUST SAID YOU HAVE NO
REASON TO DISPUTE THEIR ACCOUNTS
BASED ON THEIR DETAILED NOTES.
>> WERE THEY SAYING THAT I TOLD
THEM THAT PRESIDENT TRUMP SAID
THAT THE AID WOULD NOT BE
RELEASED UNTIL THE STATEMENTS
WERE MADE BECAUSE I SAID
REPEATEDLY, I DON'T RECALL
PRESIDENT TRUMP EVER SAYING
THAT TO ME.
>>
OKAY.
>> PRESIDENT TRUMP WAS ADAMANT
THAT PRESIDENT ZELENSKY HAD TO
CLEAR THINGS UP
AND DO IT IN
PUBLIC. HE MADE IT CLEAR TO YOU
IN THE CALL, THAT PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY HAD TO CLEAR THINGS UP
AND DO IT IN PUBLIC.
>> I DON'T HAVE ANY REASON TO
DISPUTE. WHAT I'M TRYING TO BE
CLEAR ABOUT WAS PRESIDENT TRUMP
NEVER TOLD ME DIRECTLY THAT THE
AID WAS TIED TO THAT STATEMENT.
>> IN THAT SAME CONVERSATION YOU
HAD WITH HIM ABOUT THE AID, HE
TOLD YOU PRESIDENT ZELENSKY HAD
TO CLEAR THINGS UP AND DO IT IN
PUBLIC.
>> I DID NOT HAVE A CONVERSATION
WITH HIM ABOUT THE AID. I HAD A
CONVERSATION ABOUT QUID PRO QUO.
>> IT WAS OVER THE AID, CORRECT?
>> NO. PRESIDENT TRUMP, WHEN I
ASKED HIM THE OPEN ENDED
QUESTION, AS I TESTIFIED
PREVIOUSLY, I ASKED WHAT DO YOU
WANT FROM UKRAINE? HIS ANSWER
WAS I WANT NOTHING. TELL
ZELENSKY TO DO THE RIGHT THING.
THAT'S ALL I GOT.
>> DID YOU ALSO GET FROM
PRESIDENT TRUMP AS REFLECTED BY
AMBASSADOR TAYLOR, THAT
HE SAID HE WAS ADAMANT THAT
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY HAD TO CLEAR
IT UP AND DO IT IN PUBLIC?
>> THAT PART I CAN AGREE WITH.
>> TIME IS NOW WITH THE MINORITY
FOR 33 MINUTES.
>> 33
MINUTES. THANK
YOU  MR. CHAIR.
>> SO IF YOU WANT TO GET TO THE
BOTTOM OF SOMETHING, WHO DO YOU
GO TO? THE MANAGER. RIGHT? IF
YOU WANT TO GET TO THE BOTTOM OF
FOREIGN AID, GO TO THE PEOPLE IN
CHARGE OF FOREIGN AID IN THIS
TOWN. WOULDN'T YOU? YOU ARE NOT
IN CHARGE OF FOREIGN AID.
>> I AM NOT.
>> AND YOU HAD TO TESTIFY THAT
YOU PRESUMED FOREIGN AID WAS
THIS OR THAT AND YOU ARE
GUESSING THAT THIS WAS TIED TO
FOREIGN AID. BUT THERE ARE
PEOPLE IN THIS TOWN WHO ARE IN
CHARGE OF THE FOREIGN AID. AND
IN FACT I DON'T THINK IT IS FAIR
TO YOU OR US OR THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE, THAT
WE
HAD THAT PERSON HERE. THAT
TESTIMONY MIGHT BE PRETTY
IMPORTANT TO YOU IF YOU COULD
HAVE READ THAT. YOUR LAWYERS
PROBABLY WENT THROUGH THAT. IT
COULD HAVE CLARIFIED SOME MORE
THINGS FOR YOU ABOUT YOUR
RECOLLECTION ABOUT THE FOREIGN
AID. SO, EARLIER, WE HEARD, WE
HAD THE CHAIR LOOKING AT THE
CAMERAS, TELLING AMERICAN
PEOPLE. LOOKING AT WATER GATE.
THEIR WATER GATE FANTASIES. I
GUESS THEY FANTASIZE ABOUT THIS
AT NIGHT AND COME IN HERE
TALKING ABOUT OBSTRUCTION OF
JUSTICE BECAUSE THEY ARE NOT
GIVING YOU DOCUMENTS YOU THINK
YOU SHOULD HAVE. NOW, THEY LAID
OUT THEIR CLEAR WATER GATE
ARGUMENT OR ARTICLES OF
IMPEACHMENT. I HAVE TO ARE MIND
THE GENTLEMAN. I KNOW WE ARE NOT
IN A COURT OF LAW
BECAUSE YOU WROTE THE RULES. BUT
I WOULD SAY IT IS NOT
OBSTRUCTION OF JUSTICE TO GIVE
THE AMERICAN AMBASSADOR THE
RIGHT TO LOOK AT THE TRANSCRIPT
OF THE MAN IN CHARGE OF THE
FOREIGN AID IN THIS TOWN. NOW, I
CAN GET INTO WHAT HE SAID. BUT,
THE CHAIR COULD RELEASE WHAT HE
SAID. AND WE ARE NOT IAN ALLOWED
TO
CALL THAT WITNESS
HERE. TODAY. SO LET'S TALK ABOUT
THINGS DO KNOW ARE FACTS.
PRESIDENT TRUMP DOES NOT LIKE
FOREIGN AID TO START WITH. IS
THAT CORRECT?
>> I HAVE HEARD THAT. YES.
>> AND YOU TESTIFIED THAT
WATCHING OVER THE EU, YOU HAVE
28 COUNTRIES. NEIGHBORING
COUNTRIES YOU WORK WITH. ONE OF
HIS BIGGEST COMPLAINTS IS THE
LACK OF PARTICIPATION THAT THOSE
COUNTRIES PARTICIPATE IN
PROGRAMS AROUND THE WORLD. ISN'T
THAT CORRECT?
>> THAT IS CORRECT.
>> ESPECIALLY NATO.
>> YES.
>> WHEN YOU GO DOWN THE LIST OF
THE THE JOBS, WHEN YOU GET
DIRECTIONS FROM THE WHITE HOUSE,
WHEN YOU FIRST BECAME
AMBASSADOR, PROBABLY ONE OF THE
NUMBER ONE THINGS. I DON'T WANT
TO PUT WORDS IN YOUR MOUTH. BUT
ON THE TOP OF THE LIST WAS
MAKING SURE COUNTRIES PAY THEIR
FAIR SHARE, ESPECIALLY WITH
NATO.
>> AND I'M NOT GOING TO TAKE HER
LANE.
>> IT IS ONE OF THE
ISSUES YOU BRING UP IN YOUR
MEETINGS, CORRECT?
>> IT IS.
>> I KNOW YOU WEREN'T ON THE
JULY 25 DONE CALL, BUT ONE OF
THE FIRST THINGS THE PRESIDENT
OF THE UNITED STATES BRINGS UP
IS GERMANY'S LACK OF
PARTICIPATION. HE NAMES THE
PRESIDENT OF GERMANY DIRECTLY.
THAT THEY ARE NOT PARTICIPATING
IN HELPING OUT UKRAINE WHO IS
ONE OF THEIR
NEIGHBORS. IS THAT WHAT YOU
READ?
>> I HEARD THAT. YES.
>> SO, THE WHOLE IDEA THAT THE
PRESIDENT DOESN'T LIKE FOREIGN
AID. HE DOESN'T THINK COUNTRIES
PAY THEIR FAIR SHARE. THAT'S
LOOKING OUT FOR THE TAXPAYER.
BUT THERE'S MORE. AND WE TALKED
ABOUT THIS IN YOUR DEPOSITION.
WE TALKED ABOUT HOW WE HAVE
REQUIREMENTS. THAT CONGRESS
WRITES REQUIREMENTS INTO THE LAW
THAT REQUIRE YOU AND ALL THE
DEALERSHIP LOW MATS TO CARRY OUT
THE FOREIGN POLICY FOR THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.
BEFORE THE PRESIDENT CAN CERTIFY
FOREIGN AID AND SEND FOREIGN
AID, THERE HAS TO BE
CERTIFICATION THAT THERE'S NO
CORRUPTION. YOU ARE AWARE OF
THAT NOW.
>> I AM NOW, YES.
>> SO, BEING THAT YOU LEARNED
ABOUT THAT IN YOUR DEPOSITION.
NOW LOOKING BACK AT CLEARLY THE
CHALLENGES AND CONCERNS THE
PRESIDENT HAD WITH THE
INVOLVEMENT OF HIGH LEVEL
UKRAINIAN GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS
INCLUDING THE AMBASSADOR HERE IN
THE UNITED STATES THAT ATTACKED
HIM DURING HIS PRESIDENTIAL
CAMPAIGN. THE CONCERNS OF LEAKS
THAT WERE LEAKS OR JUST MADE UP
STORIES AND CONSPIRACY THEORIES
SPUN INTO STEELE DOSSIER THAT
THE DEMOCRATS ON THIS COMMITTEE
OWN. THEY PAID FOR IT. OTHER DNC
OPERATIVES THAT WERE WORKING
WITH THE UKRAINIAN AMBASSADOR
HERE IN WASHINGTON DC TO DIRTY
UP YOUR BOSS. THE PRESIDENT OF
THE UNITED STATES. WE WILL NOT
HEAR FROM THOSE WITNESSES. JUST
LIKE WE ARE NOT GOING TO HEAR
FROM THE PERSON WE DEPOSED ON
SATURDAY. WE ARE NOT GOING TO
HEAR ABOUT WHAT THE REAL REASON
THE PERSON WHO IS IN CHARGE OF
MAKING SURE THAT FOREIGN AID IS
DELIVERED. WE WILL NOT HEAR
ABOUT WHAT ACTUALLY HAPPENED
WITH THE FOREIGN AID. WOULDN'T
THAT HAVE MADE IT A LOT EASIER
FOR YOU TO TESTIFY THAN INSTEAD
OF GUESSING? DOING LITTLE FUNNY
MATH PROBLEMS UP HERE? TWO PLUS
TWO EQUALS FOUR? WOULDN'T IT BE
EASIER IF YOU JUST KNEW EXACTLY
WHY THE FOREIGN AID WASN'T
GIVEN?
>> IT WOULD HAVE BEEN EASIER TO
TESTIFY IF I HAD A TOTALITY OF
THE RECORD.
>> AND WOULD YOU TRUST THE
PERSON IN CHARGE OF CUTTING THE
CHECKS FOR FOREIGN AID, THE TOP
CAREER DIPLOMAT OR THE TOP
CAREER OFFICIAL?
>> I WOULD HAVE NO REASON NOT
TO.
>> WELL AMBASSADOR, I DON'T KNOW
IF WE WILL GET TO SPEAK AGAIN.
BUT I'M DONE WITH QUESTIONS WITH
YOU. I KNOW THE REST OF THE
MEMBERS HAVE MORE QUESTIONS. AND
LET ME TURN TO, I KNOW  MR.
CASTOR HAS SOME MORE QUESTIONS.
>> HELLO AGAIN AMBASSADOR.
>> HI.
>> I WILL TRY NOT TO USE ALL OF
THIS TIME AS A COURTESY TO YOU.
I WANT TO GO THROUGH SOME
DISTINCTIONING BETWEEN YOUR
OPENER AND YOUR DEPOSITION. AND
SOME OTHER WITNESSES. IN YOUR
OPENING STATEMENT TODAY,
PRESIDENT TRUMP DIRECTED US TO
TALK WITH RUDY. CORRECT?
>> YES.
>> YOU AND I HAD A LITTLE BIT OF
A BACK AND FORTH ABOUT TALKING
TO RUDY. YOU TOOK THAT TO MEAN
IF WE WANTED TO MOVE FORWARD
WITH THESE TYPES OF THINGS, RUDY
WAS THE PLACE TO GO?
>> RUDY WAS THE GUY.
>> OKAY. BUT, PRESIDENT TRUMP
DIDN'T DIRECT YOU TO TALK TO
RUDY. CORRECT?
>> IT WASN'T AN ORDER. IT WAS IF
YOU WANT TO WORK ON THIS, THIS
IS THE GUY YOU GOT TO TALK TO.
>> AMBASSADOR VOLKER IN HIS
DEPOSITION SAID I DIDN'T TAKE IT
AS
AN INSTRUCTION,
BUT JUST AS A COMMENT.
AMBASSADOR VOLKER HAS NOT
TESTIFIED THERE WAS ANY SORT OF
ORDER OR DIRECTION TO TALK TO
RUDY.
>> I DON'T KNOW WHAT HE
TESTIFIED. IT BECAME VERY CLEAR
TO ALL THREE OF US THAT IF WE
WANTED TO MOVE THE RELATIONSHIP
FORWARD, PRESIDENT TRUMP WAS
NOT REALLY INTERESTED IN
ENGAGING. HE WANTED RUDY TO
HANDLE IT. SECRETARY PERRY TOOK
THE LEAD AND MADE THE INITIAL
CONTACT WITH RUDY AND THAT'S
WHEN WE BEGAN WORKING WITH HIM.
>> AS TO THE QUESTION OF WHETHER
MR. GIULIANI WAS EXPRESSING THE
DESIRE SPECIFICALLY OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES,
YOU SAID I DON'T KNOW. YOU
DIDN'T KNOW IF THIS WAS COMING
OF RUDY GIULIANI IRRESPECTIVE OF
THE PRESIDENT.
>> LY
NOT DISPUTE WHAT I SAID IN MY
DEPOSITION.
>> AMBASSADOR VOLKER AND HIS
DEPOSITION ON THE SAME QUESTION
SAID I DID NOT HAVE THAT
IMPRESSION. I BELIEVE  MR.
GIULIANI WAS DOING HIS OWN
COMMUNICATIONS. AND HE HAD
BUSINESS INTEREST IN UKRAINE.
CORRECT?
>> NOW I UNDERSTAND HE DID. I
DIDN'T KNOW THAT AT THE TIME.
>> A LOT OF NEW NAMES I LEARNED.
>> AND YOU HAD NEVER MET
WITH THOSE FOLKS?
>> NO.
>> AND THEN, IN YOUR SEPTEMBER 9
COMMUNICATION WITH THE
PRESIDENT, DURING YOUR
DEPOSITION. THAT WAS A STRIKING
MOMENT WHEN YOU WALKED US
THROUGH YOUR FULL PHONE CALL
WITH PRESIDENT TRUMP ON
SEPTEMBER 9.
>> BY THE WAY, I CAN NOT FIND A
RECORD OF THAT CALL BECAUSE THEY
CANNOT LOCATE IT BUT I'M PRETTY
SURE I HAD THE CALL ON THAT DAY.
>> WHETHER IT WAS THE NINTH OR
THE EIGHTH, YOU HAD THIS CALL.
IT WAS EXTREMELY MEMORABLE
RIGHT?
>> IT WAS.
>> AND YOU HAVE BEEN VERY HONEST
AND WE ARE NOT TRYING TO GIVE
YOU A HARD TIME ON ALL THE TIMES
YOU DON'T RECALL. WE ARE JUST
TRYING TO SAY THAT A LOT OF
IMPORTANT EVENTS HAVE HAPPENED,
THAT THE COMMITTEE ASKED YOU
ABOUT AND YOU HONESTLY SAID I
DON'T RECALL. BUT THE CALL WITH
PRESIDENT TRUMP ON SEPTEMBER 9
OR 8, YOU RECALL IT VIVIDLY.
RIGHT?
>> I RECALL IT VIVIDLY BECAUSE
IT WAS KEYED BY THE FRANTIC
EMAILS FROM AMBASSADOR TAYLOR. I
HAD AGAIN, PRIOR TO THAT CALL,
HAD ALL KINDS OF THEORIES AS TO
WHY THINGS WEREN'T MOVING. WHY
THERE WAS NO WHITE HOUSE
MEETING. WHY THERE WAS NO AID
AND I WAS GETTING TIRED OF GOING
AROUND IN CIRCLES FRANKLY. SO I
MADE THE CALL AND I ASKED AS I
SAID THE OPEN ENDED QUESTION.
WHAT DO YOU WANT FROM UKRAINE.
THAT'S WHEN I GOT THE ANSWER.
>> HE WAS UNEQUIVOCAL.
>> NOTHING.
>> WHAT I SAID IN THE TEXT IS
WHAT I HEARD.
>> AND WAS THAT VIGNETTE IN YOUR
OPENER TODAY?
>> I DON'T THINK SO.
>>
HOW COME? IT'S SO MEMORABLE. SO
STRIKING.
>> I DON'T KNOW. IT WAS IN MY
PREVIOUS TESTIMONY AND I ASSUMED
IF PEOPLE HAD QUESTIONS THEY
WOULD BRING IT UP.
>> A LOT OF WITNESSES DURING THE
COURSE OF THIS INVESTIGATION
HAVE DEALT WITH AMBIGUITIES IN
DIFFERENT WAYS AND SOME HAVE
RESOLVED THEM IN LIGHT LEAST
FAVORABLE TO THE PRESIDENT OVER
AND OVER AGAIN. THIS IS A FACT
SHEDDING SOME LIGHT ON THE
PRESIDENT'S STATE OF MIND. ABOUT
THE SITUATION.
>> AND I'M HAPPY TO DISCUSS.
>> SO I'M WONDERING WHY YOU
DIDN'T MENTION IT IN YOUR
OPENER.
>> THERE WERE SO MANY THINGS I
WANTED TO INCLUDE IN MY OPENER
AND MY OPENING WAS ALREADY 45
MINUTES OR SOMETHING. IT WOULD
HAVE BEEN AN HOUR-AND-A-HALF.
>> YOU ONLY HAD A COUPLE OF
CONVERSATIONS WITH THE
PRESIDENT. WE ARE TRYING TO
EVALUATE.
>> IT WAS NOT PURPOSEFUL. TRUST
ME.
>> TALKING ABOUT STRIKING
CONVERSATIONS. MR. HOLMES WHEN
HE CAME HERE LAST FRIDAY IN THE
BASEMENT, HE, I'LL TELL YOU, HE
THOUGHT YOUR CONVERSATION THAT
YOU HAD WITH THE PRESIDENT WAS
LIKE THE MOST MEMORABLE THING HE
HAS EVER EXPERIENCED.
>> HOW MANY CONVERSATIONS HAS HE
HAD WITH THE PRESIDENT?
>> HE PROBABLY HASN'T HAD ANY.
BUT HE WAS ENERGIZED.
ENTHUSIASTIC ABOUT TELLING US
THE CONVERSATION.
>> NOT ONLY DID I BUY HIM LUNCH,
BUT I ALSO PROVIDED
ENTERTAINMENT?
>> HE CONFERRED WITH US THAT HE
REGALED ANYONE THAT HE
CAME ACROSS WITH THIS STORY.
BUT, OTHER THAN THE COLORFUL
LANGUAGE. HE WAS
DEFINITELY MOVED BY THE COLOR.
BUT HE WAS UNEQUIVOCAL THAT YOU
BROUGHT UP THE BIDENS
IN THE POST CALL DISCUSSION. AND
HE SAID SOMETHING TO THE EFFECT
THE PRESIDENT IS ONLY INTERESTED
IN BIG THINGS. MR. HOLMES SAID
THAT THERE'S A LOT OF BIG THINGS
GOING ON IN THE UKRAINE. AND
THERE ARE. THERE'S A WAR.
UKRAINE IS UNDER ATTACK BY
RUSSIA. AND HE PUTS WORDS IN
YOUR MOUTH TO THE EFFECT OF NO.
THE PRESIDENT ONLY CARES
ABOUT INVESTIGATIONS ABOUT THE
BIDENS. THIS IS THE DAY AFTER
THE 7/25 CALL. WHAT WAS REPORTED
BY YOU AND  MR. HOLMES ISN'T
ANYTHING DIFFERENT THAN HAPPENED
ON THE 7/25 CALL. AGREED?
>> WITH 20/20 HINDSIGHT, THE
BIDENS WERE CLEARLY MENTIONED ON
THE CALL. I WASN'T MAKEING THE
CONNECTION WITH THE BIDENS.
>> WITH REGARD TO THE PRESIDENT,
IT WAS MENTIONING
INVESTIGATIONS.
>> THAT'S ALL HE SAID ON THE
PHONE.
>> BUT YOU TOLD US TIME AND
AGAIN, THAT YOU NEVER REALIZED
THE BIDENS WERE PART OF ANY OF
THIS. BURISMA. YOU TALKED ABOUT
A CONTINUUM AND NEVER CAME TO
UNDERSTAND THAT UNTIL MAYBE AS
LATE AS SEPTEMBER 25.
>> I DON'T KNOW THE EXACT DATE.
BUT IT WAS PRETTY LATE.
>> AND AMBASSADOR VOLKER SAID
THE BIDENS NEVER CAME UP AFTER
HIS ONE BREAKFAST MEETING WITH
MAYOR GIULIANI WHERE HE
TESTIFIED HE TRIED TO DISABUSE
THE MAYOR OF ANYTHING RELATING
TO THE BIDENS. AND I THINK
SECRETARY PERRY PUBLICLY STATED
HE NEVER HEARD BIDEN EITHER
UNTIL THE END. SO, WHEN YOU
TESTIFY HERE TODAY THAT YOU HAVE
NO RECOLLECTION OF MENTIONING
THE BIDENS TO  MR. HOLMES,
THAT'S NOT JUST A RECOLLECTION,
THAT'S BASED ON YOUR STATE OF
MIND AT THAT POINT IN TIME. AND
YOUR STATE OF MIND UP TO
SEPTEMBER 25.
>> I WASN'T INTO INVESTIGATING
THE BIDENS.
>> SO IT WAS SURPRISING TO YOU
THAT HE WOULD MENTION THAT.
>> IT WAS VERY SURPRISING TO ME.
>> I WANT TO GO BACK TO A COUPLE
OF THING INS YOUR STATEMENT.
THIS JULY 26 MEETING WITH
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY. EARLIER IN
THE DAY FROM THIS LUNCH. THIS
EVENT WE HAVE BEEN TALKING
ABOUT. DURING THE COURSE OF THE
MEETING WITH PRESIDENT ZELENSKY,
DID ANY OF THE PARTIES DISCUSS
WHAT CAME UP ON THE TELEPHONE
CALL?
>> I DON'T BELIEVE SO.
>> THAT PRESIDENT ZELENSKY
DIDN'T EXPRESS ANY CONCERNS
ABOUT CONTENT OF A CALL. RIGHT?
>> ALL I HEARD ABOUT THAT CALL
WAS THAT IT WAS A GOOD CALL. IT
WAS FRIENDLY, EVERYONE WAS
HAPPY. YOU KNOW. I WAS DELIGHTED
TO HEAR THAT SO WE COULD NOW
MOVE TO THE NEXT PHASE WHICH WAS
A MEETING.
>> SO, YOU CAN TELL US WITH
CERTAINTY THAT NOBODY TALKED
ABOUT DEMANDS IN THAT MEETING.
FULFILLING THE PRESIDENT'S
DEMANDS?
>> I DON'T REMEMBER EXACTLY.
AGAIN, THIS IS THE GREAT EXAMPLE
WHERE I WOULD HAVE LOVED TO HAVE
SEEN THE NOTES FROM THE MEETING.
I DIDN'T TAKE ANY NOTES BUT I
KNOW THERE WERE NOTES TAKEN. BUT
I DON'T REMEMBER ANY HEATED
CONVERSATION IN THE MEETING. I
REMEMBER IT BEING A REALLY,
REALLY FRIENDLY GOOD MEETING AND
THAT'S WHY I SAID WHAT I DID FOR
THE PRESIDENT THE NEXT DAY.
WHICH WAS, YOU KNOW, ZELENSKY
WILL DO WHATEVER
YOU WANT. HE IS VERY HAPPY.
>> YOU DON'T REMEMBER ANY
DISCUSSION BY PRESIDENT ZELENSKY
OF LAMENTING HOW HE HAD TO
NAVIGATE THIS DIFFICULT
SITUATION, RIGHT?
>> I DON'T KNOW. I KNOW THAT WAS
IN THE WHISTLE BLOWER COMPLAINT.
SOMETHING ABOUT NAVIGATING
SOMETHING.
>> IT WAS.
>> I
DIDN'T
REMEMBER
ANYTHING LIKE THAT.
>> WOULD BE ANOTHER HELPFUL
THING AMBASSADOR, WOULD BE IF WE
HEARD FROM THE WHISTLEBLOWER AND
HAD TESTIMONY OF THE
WHISTLEBLOWER. THEN YOU WOULDN'T
HAVE TO BE UP HERE SPECULATING
AND GUESSING AS MUCH BECAUSE YOU
WOULD HAVE A SOURCE THAT WOULD
HAVE BEEN INTERVIEWED. WE HAVE
HIS COMPLAINT. WE COULD HAVE
MATCHED IT UP WITH YOUR
TESTIMONY ALONG WITH THE PEOPLE
FROM OMB THAT WOULD HAVE MADE IT
VERY EASY FOR YOU TO TESTIFY SO
YOU WOULDN'T JUST HAVE TO TRY TO
REMEMBER ALL THIS STUFF AND
CHASE CONSPIRACY THEORIES AROUND
THAT THE DEMOCRATS HAVE
CONTINUED TO LAY OUT THE LAST
SIX WEEKS MOVING FROM QUID PRO
QUO TO EXTORTION, BRIBERY, NOW
BACK TO QUID PRO QUO. WE
WOULDN'T HAVE HAD TO DO ALL THAT
IF THE WHISTLE BLOWER WOULD HAVE
TESTIFIED. YOU WOULDN'T HAVE TO
SPECULATE. BACK TO  MR. CASTER.
>> THANK YOU MR. NUNEZ. I WANT
TO TURN TO A COUPLE OF TIMES IN
YOUR OPENER. YOU SAID EVERYONE
WAS
IN THE LOOP. THESE TELEVISED
PROCEEDINGS,
WE LOSE TRACK OF THINGS. EVERY
WAS NOT IN THE LOOP WITH YOUR
SPECULATION OR GUESS THAT IN THE
ABSENCE OF ANY CREDIBLE
SPECULATION IN THE SUSPENSION OF
AID, I CAME TO BELIEVE THAT THE
RESUMPTION OF SECURITY AID WOULD
NOT OCCUR WITHOUT PUBLIC
STATEMENT FROM THE UKRAINE.
>> THE SECRETARY WAS IN THE
LOOP. THAT'S WHY I SENT MY
EMAIL.
>> LET'S LOOK AT YOUR EMAILS.
THERE'S TWO YOU
SENT
TO THE SECRETARY. RIGHT?
>>
UH-HUH.
>> AUGUST 22.
>> AND
AUGUST 11.
>>> SO, THE AUGUST 11 EMAIL, YOU
SAID TO THE SECRETARY, WE
NEGOTIATED A STATEMENT TO BE
DELIVERED FOR OUR REVIEW IN A
DAY OR TWO. THE CONTENTS WILL
HOPEFULLY MAKE THE BOSS HAPPY
ENOUGH TO AUTHORIZE AN
INVITATION. Z PLANS TO HAVE A
BIG PRESSER ON THE OPENNESS
SUBJECT NEXT WEEK. A COUPLE OF
THINGS HERE. THIS WAS ON
RELATEING TO THE WHITE HOUSE
METING. CORRECT?
>> YES. I BELIEVE
SO.
>> AND THIS IS ONLY, JUST
INVESTIGATIONS MAKING A PUBLIC
STATEMENT OF OPENNESS GENERALLY.
RIGHT?
>> I THINK BY AUGUST 11, MR.
CASTOR,
OF THESE THINGS AND GIVING THEM
THE EVIDENCE THAT THEY ARE
RUNNING OUT AND DOING PRESS
CONFERENCES. AND THEY ARE SAYING
AT THE PRESENT UNITED STATES
SHOULD BE IN PEACH BECAUSE HE
TIED AID TO THE INVESTIGATIONS.
>> NEVER SAID THAT THE PRESIDENT
NOT STATE SHOULD BE IMPEACHED.
>> YOU LEFT PEOPLE WITH A
CONFUSING IMPRESSION
. I YIELD BACK.
>>
AMBASSADOR SONDLAND. I WANT TO
BETTER UNDERSTAND RUDY
GIULIANI'S ROLE IN CARRYING OUT
THE PRESIDENT'S DEMAND FOR AN
INVESTIGATION.
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP TOLD YOU
THAT YOU NEEDED TO LISTEN TO
RUDY GIULIANI.
>> YES HER.
>> WHAT DID YOU UNDERSTAND RUDY
GIULIANI'S RELATIONSHIP WITH
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP.
>> HE WAS THE PRESIDENT'S
PERSONAL LAWYER.
WHAT DID YOU BELIEVE THAT RUDY
GIULIANI WAS DOING IN UKRAINE
FOR PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP?  BUT
I DO NOT KNOW.
>> AMBASSADOR SONDLAND IN
AUGUST OF THIS YEAR YOU SPOKE
WITH RUDY GIULIANI ABOUT A
STATEMENT TO BE ISSUED ABOUT
PRESIDENT VOLODYMYR ZELENSKY. IT
WAS RUDY GIULIANI THAT INSISTED
THAT THE STATEMENT INCLUDES
SPECIFIC LANGUAGE ABOUT BURISMA?
>> CORRECT.
>> HE INSISTED THAT THE
STATEMENT INCLUDE THE 2016
ELECTIONS. AMBASSADOR VOLKER
RELAYED THIS TO A TOP UKRAINIAN
OFFICIAL ?
>> CORRECT. THIS STATEMENT WAS
PART OF THE DELIVERY THAT
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP WANTED.
TO YOUR
KNOWLEDGE WAS PUSHING BURISMA
AND THAT BIDEN WAS PART OF
OFFICIAL STATE POLICY? BUT I
NEVER TESTIFIED THAT WE ARE
PUSHING 12 INVESTIGATE THE
BIDENS. I SAID BURISMA.
>> YOU ARE INVOLVED IN UKRAINIAN
POLICY? BUT I TOLD YOU WHAT MIKE
ROLE WAS, WHICH WAS LIMITED AND
FOCUSED.
>> WAS IT YOUR UNDERSTANDING
THAT UKRAINE POLICY SHOULD
INVOLVE INVESTIGATIONS INTO
AMERICANS OR DEBUNK CONSPIRACY
THEORIES ABOUT THE ELECTION ?
>> WHAT I TESTIFIED IN ORDER TO
GET PRESIDENT VOLODYMYR ZELENSKY
A WHITE HOUSE VISIT PRESIDENT
DONALD TRUMP WANTED THESE
ANNOUNCEMENTS TO HAPPEN ABOUT
THE INVESTIGATIONS.
>> IS PART OF THE PRESENT
POLITICAL AGENDA TO BENEFIT THE
PRESIDENT PERSONALLY AND
POLITICALLY. ARE YOU FOLLOWING
THE PRESIDENT'S ORDERS?
>> I WAS FOLLOWING HIS DIRECTION
TO SPEAK WITH RUDY GIULIANI.
>> MY COLLEAGUES SEEM TO BE
UNDER
THE IMPRESSION THAT UNLESS THEY
SPOKE THE WORDS AMBASSADOR
SONDLAND I AM BRIBING  THE
UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT THAT THERE
IS NO EVIDENCE OF BRIBERY. IF HE
DIDN'T SAY
AMBASSADOR SONDLAND I'M NOT
GIVING THE AIDE UNLESS THEY DO
THIS  THAT THERE IS NO EVIDENCE
OF A QUID PRO QUO.
OF EVIDENCE
, THE WHITE HOUSE MEETING IN
, THAT A NEW JUSTICE PERSON WAS
PUT IN PLACE THAT THE
YOU SHOWED US DOCUMENTS ABOUT
THIS. YOU SAID THAT THE LOGJAM
YOU ARE REFERRING TO IS THE
LOGJAM ON SECURITY SYSTEMS. IS
THAT CORRECT? BUT THAT IS MY
PRESUMPTION.
>> WE HAVE ALSO SEEN THAT
ACTING CHIEF OF STAFF MULVANEY
ACKNOWLEDGED THAT THE MILITARY
AID WAS WITHHELD
OVER THE 2016 INVESTIGATION?
THEY ALSO SEEM TO SAY THAT THEY
GOT THE MONEY
. YES THEY GOT CAUGHT.
THEY MAY KNOW STATEMENT AND THEY
GOT NO MEETING.
THEY MAY KNOW STATEMENT AND GOT
NO MEANING. BUT THEY GOT CAUGHT.
TWO DAYS BEFORE THE AIDE LIFTED
CONGRESS ANNOUNCED
THAT THEY WERE INVESTIGATING THE
SKIN. ARE YOU AWARE OF THIS? BUT
I AM NOW.
BUT I WOULD LIKE TO ADDRESS A
CLAIM THAT YOU MADE THIS MORNING
CHAIRMAN. CLAIMING THE
REPUBLICANS DENIED THE ATTEMPT
TO INFLUENCE ELECTIONS. IN THIS
MINI TIME AND TIME AGAIN WE ALL
AGREE THAT RUSSIA HAS TRIED TO
INFLUENCE AMERICAN ELECTIONS AS
FAR BACK AS THE SOVIET UNION. I
WISH YOU WOULD QUIT MAKING THAT
COMMENT. YESTERDAY WE
ESTABLISHED WITH MR. VOLKER.
THAT MORE THAN ONE COUNTRY CAN
INFLUENCE OUR ELECTIONS. WE DID
NOT AGREE WITH YOUR RUSSIAN
COLLUSION NARRATIVE, THAT
OCCURRED IN CONJUNCTION WITH
FOREIGN SOURCES. SOMETHING THAT
YOU HAVE CONVENIENTLY IGNORED AS
CHAIRMAN OF THE INTELLIGENCE
COMMITTEE AS YOU BECAME THE
CHAIRMAN OF THE IMPEACHMENT
COMMITTEE. IN THIS PROCESS TODAY
I'M INTERESTED IN FACT. I'M NOT
A PROSECUTOR OR DEFENSE
ATTORNEY. I AM NOT AN ATTORNEY
LIKE MR. TURNER.
AMBASSADOR SONDLAND YOU'VE USE
THE WORD PRESUME, PRESUMPTION ,
SOME FORM OF THE VERB REPEATEDLY
TODAY . TODAY YOU SAID THAT THAT
WAS THE PROBLEM. NO ONE EVER
TOLD ME THE AIDE WAS TIED TO
ANYTHING. I WAS PRESUMING IT
WAS. A MATHEMATIC FACT.
2+2=4 BUT TWO PRESUMPTIONS PLUS
TWO PRESUMPTIONS DOES NOT EQUAL
ONE FACT. THE PRESIDENT
DID TELL YOU AMBASSADOR SONDLAND
NO QUID PRO QUO. THAT IS A FACT.
ANOTHER FACT. NO QUID PRO QUO
OCCURRED.
>> MR. CHAIRMAN I WOULD LIKE TO
CONSENT TO ENTER INTO THE RECORD
THE WASHINGTON POST ARTICLE THAT
THE WHISTLEBLOWER HAS A
STATUTORY RIGHT TO AN ENTITY.
RECEIVING THREE PINOCCHIO'S. THE
INTERPRETATION OF THAT WOULD BE
THAT WE ARE TRYING TO PROTECT
THE WHISTLEBLOWER. AN EQUALLY
VALID AND CREDIBLE
INTERPRETATION IS THAT THERE IS
SOMETHING TO HIDE. THAT THIS IS
AN UNLEVEL PLAYING FIELD. THERE
IS A STATUTORY RIGHT TO
ANONYMITY AND IT MAY CHANGE THAT
PLAINFIELD AND THE ADVANTAGES
THAT IT GIVES IN. MR. CHAIRMAN
ANNOUNCES THAT HE WILL NOT
TOLERATE ANY WITNESS
INTIMIDATION, THREATS OR ISSUES
OF TRYING TO BULLY A WITNESS.
AMBASSADOR SONDLAND HAVE YOU,
YOUR FAMILY , OR YOU BUSINESSES
RECEIVED ANY THREATS , OR
ATTEMPTS TO HARM YOU IN ANY WAY?
>> MANY.
>> COULD YOU GIVE US AN EXAMPLE?
>> WE HAVE COUNTLESS EMAILS TO
MY WIFE. OUR
PROPERTIES ARE BEING PICKETED
AND BOYCOTTED.
>> LET'S EXPLORE THAT ONE.
>> OUR OWN CALLING CONGRESSMAN
FROM OREGON HAS CALLED FOR A
BOYCOTT OF YOUR HOTEL CHAINS IN
OREGON. I AM ASSUMING THAT HE
BELIEVES THAT WILL HARM YOU TO
THE POINT THAT YOU WILL BE
BULLIED INTO DOING WHATEVER HE
WANTS DONE.
HE INTENDED TO HARM YOU AND YOUR
BUSINESS. IS THAT WHAT YOU
SURMISE? BUT THAT IS MY
UNDERSTANDING.
>>'S CALL FOR BOYCOTT GAVE RISE
TO DEMONSTRATIONS IN FRONT OF
YOUR HOTEL.
>> AS I UNDERSTAND IT THEY ARE
GOING ON AS WE SPEAK. BUT THE
WORDS ARE BETTER PUT. THAT YOUR
ATTEMPT TO HURT A BUSINESSES
SUPPORTS HUNDREDS OF JOBS IS
SHAMEFUL AND IS AN OUTRAGE TO
ALL OREGON RESIDENTS.
ANOTHER WOMAN SAID WE ARE
SADDENED TO HAVE OUR CONGRESSMEN
CALL FOR A BOYCOTT THAT WOULD
PUT THE LIVELIHOOD OF THOUSANDS
OF CONSTITUENTS IN PERIL. THE
ATTACK ON OUR EMPLOYEES IS
UNWARRANTED. I COULDN'T AGREE
MORE. THE CONGRESSMAN SHOULD NOT
BE USING THE VAST INFLUENCE THAT
WE HAVE IN CONGRESS TO BULLY YOU
AND YOUR BUSINESS INTO HARMING
HUNDREDS AND THOUSANDS OF
EMPLOYEES BY TRYING TO TAKE
BUSINESS AWAY FROM YOU. TO FORCE
YOU INTO DOING SOMETHING THAT
THEY WANT YOU TO DO. THAT IS A
SHAME. I AM HOPEFUL THAT MY
COLLEAGUES ON THE OTHER SIDE OF
THE AISLE WILL JOIN ME
IN SAYING THAT HE SHOULD NOT BE
USING HIS CONGRESSIONAL
INFLUENCE TO BULLY, THREATEN A
WITNESS BEFORE THESE
PROCEEDINGS. IT IS A WRONG. I
LOOK FORWARD TO MY COLLEAGUES
RESPONSE. I YIELD BACK. BUT I
WAS SOMEWHAT HUMORED BY YOUR
REQUEST.
I WOULD LIKE TO CLARIFY ONE
POINT. THE LAW READS
. EXPRESSLY RESTRICTS THE
INSPECTOR GENERAL'S OFFICE FROM
DISCLOSING THE WHISTLEBLOWERS
IDENTITY.
WITHOUT THE CONSENT OF THE
EMPLOYEE
UNLESS THEY INSPECTOR GENERAL
DETERMINES THAT THE DISCLOSURE
IS UNAVOIDABLE DURING THE
COURSE OF THE INVESTIGATION OR
IT'S MADE TO AN OFFICIAL FROM
THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE.
RESPONSIBLE FOR DETERMINING
WHETHER A PROSECUTION SHOULD BE
UNDERTAKEN. THAT APPEARS TO BE
THE LOAN STATUTORY RESTRICTION
ON DISCLOSING THE WHISTLEBLOWERS
IDENTITY. WE FOUND NORTH COURT
RULING ON WHETHER THEY HAVE A
RIGHT TO ANONYMITY
. THEY SAID IT IS A BEST
PRACTICE TO AVOID DISCLOSURE
GIVEN THE CONCERNS ABOUT
RETALIATION.
THEY SAID WE HAVE A STEPPED INTO
BIZARRE LAND WHEN SENIOR
POLICYMAKERS ARE TRYING TO YANK
A CIA EMPLOYEE INTO THE PUBLIC
SPOTLIGHT FOR MAKING A
WHISTLEBLOWING COMPLAINT.
ESPECIALLY WHEN THEY ARE
CREDIBLE THREATS.
I DO NOT KNOW WHY OUR COLLEAGUES
>> I HAVE THREE MINUTES.
>> THE END OF THE ARTICLE DOES
GO THROUGH THAT. SO THE PRESENT
UNITED STATES HAS A FIVE
PINOCCHIO'S ON A DAILY BASIS.
LET'S NOT GO THERE.
>> [ APPLAUSE ]
>> SONDLAND YOU
SO THAT I WAS TRULY DISAPPOINTED
THAT THE STATE DEPARTMENT
PREVENTED ME FROM TESTIFYING
EARLIER
ON OCTOBER 8 , 2019. YOUR ISSUE
OF A SUBPOENA HAS SUPPORTED MY
APPEARANCE HERE TODAY AND I AM
PLEASED TO PROVIDE THE FOLLOWING
TESTIMONY. IT IS CLEAR THAT THE
WHITE HOUSE AND STATE DEPARTMENT
DID NOT WANT YOU TO TESTIFY AT
THAT DEPOSITION. IS THAT
CORRECT? BUT THAT IS CORRECT.
>> SENSING ON NUMEROUS OCCASIONS
DURING YOUR OPENING STATEMENT
HAVE INDICATED
THAT YOU HAVE NOT BEEN ABLE TO
ACCESS DOCUMENTS IN THE STATE
DEPARTMENT? IS THAT CORRECT
>> YOU BEEN HAMPERED IN YOUR
ABILITY TO PROVIDE TESTIMONY ?
>> I HAVE BEEN HAMPERED TO
PROVIDE COMPLETELY ACCURATE
TESTIMONY WITHOUT THE BENEFIT OF
THOSE DOCUMENTS.
>> IN TERMS OF YOUR CONVERSATION
WITH THE PRESENT UNITED STATES.
WHAT PERCENTAGE OF YOUR
CONVERSATION WERE ABOUT UKRAINE
COMPARED TO YOUR OTHER DUTIES ?
>> I DO NOT RECALL.
>> YOU ONLY HAD SIX OR SEVEN
CONVERSATIONS WITH THE
PRESIDENT.
>> ABOUT UKRAINE.
>> YOU HAD MANY OTHER
CONVERSATIONS.
>> ABOUT COMPLETELY UNRELATED
MATTERS.
>> HOW MANY CONVERSATIONS WITH
THE PRESENT UNITED STATES HAVE
YOU HAD? BUT AGAIN I DO NOT WANT
TO GIVE YOU A NUMBER.
>> IS A LESS THAN 20 ?
>> IT'S PROBABLY NOT RANGE.
>> WOULD YOU SAY THE DELAY IN
THE MILITARY AID AND A LACK OF A
MEETING IN THE WHITE HOUSE WORKS
TO THE BENEFIT OF RUSSIA? BUT
CAN YOU REPEAT THAT QUESTION
>> WOULD YOU SAY THE DELAY IN
MILITARY AID TO THE UKRAINE AND
A RELUCTANCE TO HAVE A WHITE
HOUSE MEETING HAS A BENEFIT TO
RUSSIA?
>> I THINK IT COULD BE LOOKED AT
THAT WAY. BUT I'M GOING TO SPEAK
VERY BRIEFLY ABOUT CODE. WHEN
MICHAEL COHEN WAS BEFORE THE
OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE YOU SUGGEST
THAT THE PRESIDENT
COMMUNICATES HIS WISHES
INDIRECTLY. YOU SAY THAT
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP DID NOT
DIRECTLY TELL ME TO LIE TO
CONGRESS. THAT IS NOT HOW HE
OPERATES.
HE DOESN'T GIVE YOU QUESTIONS OR
ORDERS. HE SPEAKS AND CODE. I
UNDERSTAND THE CODE BECAUSE I'VE
BEEN AROUND HIM FOR A DECADE. DO
YOU THINK THE PRESIDENT WAS
SPEAKING IN CODE WHEN HE TALKED
ABOUT WANTING INVESTIGATIONS?
>> I CANNOT CHARACTERIZE HOW THE
PRESIDENT WAS SPEAKING. EVERY
CONVERSATION THAT I HAVE HAD
WITH THE PRESIDENT HAS BEEN
DIRECT AND STRAIGHTFORWARD.
>> I YIELD BACK.
>> I HAVE A UNANIMOUS CONSENT
REQUEST.
>> YOU MAY STATE YOUR REQUEST.
>> IN RESPONSE TO AMBASSADOR
SONDLAND'S  COMMENTS
MISREPRESENTED
BOTH SECRETARY PERRY'S
INTERACTION WITH RUDY GIULIANI
AND THE DIRECTION THAT HE
RECEIVED FROM PRESIDENT DONALD
TRUMP. AS PREVIOUSLY STATED
SECRETARY PERRY'S SPOKE TO RUDY
GIULIANI ONLY ONCE AT THE
PRESENCE REQUEST. AT NO POINT
BEFORE, DURING , OR AFTER DID
THE WORDS BIDEN OR BURISMA COME
UP. I ASKED IF THAT BE ENTERED
INTO THE RECORD.
>> I WOULD NOTE THAT THEY HAVE
ALSO REFUSED TO COME AND TESTIFY
UNDER OATH. BUT THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE EXPECT A LOT OF THINGS.
I THINK SOMETIMES EVENTUALLY
THEY WOULD LIKE TO SEE SOME
COMPROMISE. I THINK SOMETHING
THEY EXPECT ABOVE EVERYTHING
ELSE, FUNDAMENTALLY THEY EXPECT
A SENSE OF FAIRNESS. I WANT TO
READ PART OF A
TEXT OF SOMEONE I HAVE
TREMENDOUS RESPECT FOR. A FEW
HOURS AGO SHE SAID CRAFTING A
STORY TO HURT ANOTHER HUMAN
BEING CAN NEVER BE RIGHT. THE
MEANS OF DESTROYING AND HURTING
ANOTHER INDIVIDUAL DOES NOT
JUSTIFY THE END. POLITICS DOES
NOT GIVE ANYONE A
BRIEF PASS TO DESTROY OTHER
PEOPLE. YOU CAN SAY A LOT ABOUT
THE TREATMENT OF PRESIDENT
DONALD TRUMP OVER THE LAST
TWO YEARS. YOU CANNOT ARGUE THAT
IT HAS NOT BEEN FAIR. THERE WERE
PEOPLE CALLING FOR HIS
IMPEACHMENT BEFORE HE WAS
INAUGURATED. FOR 2.5 YEARS WE
WERE TOLD EVERY SINGLE DAY THAT
HE HAS BETRAYED OUR COUNTRY. HE
IS A RUSSIAN ASSET. HE IS
COMMITTED TREASON. ACCUSATIONS
THAT ARE NOT TRUE. WE NEVER HAD
ANY EVIDENCE TO SUPPORT THAT. HE
WAS ACCUSED OF OBSTRUCTION, AND
NOW HERE WE ARE IMPEACHING THE
PRESIDENT OVER QUIT PRO QUOTE
UNTIL WE FOUND OUT THAT THAT DID
NOT HOLD, AND THEN THE BRIBERY
.  UNTIL EVERY WITNESS BEFORE
SAID THEY HAD NO EVIDENCE OF A
BRIBERY. AND NOW IT IS
EXTORTION. THE AMERICAN PEOPLE
EXPECT SOME SENSE OF FAIRNESS.
SO WHEN
HOUSE SPEAKER NANCY PELOSI
ANNOUNCES THAT THE PRESIDENT HAS
BETRAYED THE AMERICAN PEOPLE IN
HIS OATH OF OFFICE AND NATIONAL
SECURITY. WITHOUT SEEING ANY
EVIDENCE. THE AMERICAN PEOPLE
SAY WHAT IS FAIR ABOUT THAT?
THE QUESTION BEFORE US IS
EXTORTION
. THAT'S THE LATEST VERSION OF
THE CHARGES AGAINST THE
PRESIDENT. I AM NOT AN ATTORNEY.
THAT SOUNDS PRETTY SCARY AND
SERIOUS. I HAD TO LOOK UP WHAT
IT MEANS. IT MEANS OBTAINING
MONEY OR PROPERTY BY THREAT TO A
VICTIM'S PROPERTY OR LOVED ONES.
I'M GOING TO READ TO YOU A
COUPLE OF QUOTES. I'M GOING TO
REACH YOU A COUPLE OF QUOTES
FROM UKRAINE. PRESIDENT DONALD
TRUMP IS CONVINCED THAT THE NEW
UKRAINE GOVERNMENT WILL QUICKLY
IMPROVE THE UKRAINIAN
GOVERNMENT.
>> AS I TESTIFIED I AM NOT A
LAWYER AND I DO NOT WANT TO
CHARACTERIZE ANY LEGAL TERMS.
BUT MOST PEOPLE WOULD READ THAT
AND SAY I'M NOT UNDER SEVERE
PRESSURE. HE TOLD REPORTERS THAT
HE WAS NOT PRESSURED BY THE U.S.
PRESIDENT. ANOTHER TIME HE SAID
THERE WAS NO BLACKMAIL.
DO YOU THINK HE FELT LIKE HE WAS
BEING EXTORTED BASED ON THESE
COMMENTS?
>> I THINK THAT IS FOR THE
COMMITTEE IN CONGRESS
TO DECIDE.
>> IT'S REALLY FOR THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE.
>> I AGREE.
>> AND THE AMERICAN PEOPLE ARE
NOT STUPID. THE AMERICAN PEOPLE
CAN HEAR THAT AND SAY
I DO NOT THINK HE WAS UNDER
DURESS. I DON'T THINK HE WAS
BEING EXTORTED. I DO NOT THINK
THERE WAS AN EXCHANGE OF A
BRIBE. I WOULD CONCLUDE WITH HIS
LAST OBSERVATION. IT IS COMMON
FOR NATIONAL POLICY TO WITHHOLD
AID FOR A REASON. IT IS FREQUENT
. WE WILL WITHHOLD AID FOR
VARIOUS REASONS.
>> THAT IS CORRECT.
>> IT IS THE POLICY.
PRESIDENT BUSH DID. HE SUSPENDED
MILITARY AID TO 35 COUNTRIES
OVER THERE LACK OF SUPPORT FOR
THE INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL
COURT. I BET THAT HELPED HIS
POLITICAL STANDING BACK HOME.
BUT I DON'T REMEMBER ANYBODY
SUGGESTING THAT WE IMPEACH HIM
OVER IT. TRUMPS HE DID IT LAST
YEAR WITH AFGHANISTAN AND
PAKISTAN. NO ONE SUGGESTED THAT
WE IMPEACH THEM. THIS IS A
COMMON OCCURRENCE IN
INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS. IT IS
HARDLY IMPEACHABLE.
>> TIME FOR THE GENTLEMAN IS
EXPIRED.
>> THANK YOU FOR BEING HERE
TODAY. THERE ARE THINGS THAT WE
CAN AGREE AND DISAGREE ON. I CAN
AGREE THAT WE SHOULD TURN OVER
ALL OF THE DOCUMENTS. I THINK
YOU AGREE THAT IT HAS HELPED YOU
UNDERSTAND
THAT THE WHITE HOUSE HAS NOT
TURNED OVER A SINGLE DOCUMENT.
ON THAT WE CAN AGREE. OTHERS WE
CAN DISAGREE AS IT RELATES TO
THE WHISTLEBLOWER.
IT DISTRESSES ME. I BEGAN TO
WONDER ABOUT THE MOTIVATION. IN
THE FINAL ANALYSIS. THE WAY I
LOOK AT THIS. IF WE ARE
INVESTIGATING ARSON. YOU WOULD
INDICT THE PERSON WHO PULLED THE
FIRE ALARM.
THAT PERSON'S A JOB IS DONE. WE
HAVE SEEN THE SMOKE AND FIRE.
WHATEVER THE WHISTLEBLOWER DID
DOES NOT CHANGE THE PRESIDENT'S
ACTIONS. OR THE PRESENCE OWN
WORDS
IN OUR BODY OF EVIDENCE. IT
DOESN'T CHANGE MR. MULVANEY'S
WORDS
. ALL IT DOES IS PUT THIS PERSON
AT RISK. BACK TO THE DOCUMENTS
AND WHAT YOU KNOW. YOU SEEM TO
HAVE YOUR MEMORY JOG BY
DOCUMENTS. LET'S TALK ABOUT MAY
23 AND SEE IF THIS HELPS YOU.
SENATOR JOHNSON REFERENCING THAT
MAY 23 MEETING SAYS I HAVE NO
RECOLLECTION OF THE PRESIDENT
SAYING THAT DURING THAT MEETING.
I DO NOT WORK FOR THE PRESIDENT.
HE ALSO SAID I REMEMBER SONDLAND
STAYING BEHIND TO TALK TO THE
PRESIDENT AS THE REST OF THE
DELEGATION LEFT THE OVAL OFFICE.
DEER RIVER THIS CONVERSATION AND
WHAT YOU DISCUSSED? BACK AGAIN
RECAPPING. IT WAS A FREE-FOR-ALL
CONVERSATION AND I WANTED TO TIE
DOWN EXACTLY WHAT WE AGREED TO
DO AND WHAT WE DID NOT.
>> SUBSEQUENTLY HE
REINFORCED TALKING TO RUDY
GIULIANI. HE DIDN'T GO INTO MORE
DETAIL ABOUT WHAT THAT MEANT? HE
JUST SAID TALK TO RUDY? IT WAS A
VERY SHORT CONVERSATION. TO
RECONFIRM THAT WE WOULD BE
WORKING ON THE UKRAINE FILE.
>> BACK TO RUDY GIULIANI IN THIS
CONTRADICTORY PASSAGE. YOU NOW
RECALL THE PREREQUISITE
MENTIONED IN THE JULY 10
MEETING.
WHEN YOU ARE HAVING THIS
DISCUSSION THE FIRST MEETING IN
JOHN BOLTON'S OFFICE. YOU
REFERENCE THE CONDITION ?
>> I BELIEVE SOMEONE ELSE
TESTIFIED THAT I RAISED THAT. I
DID NOT DISPUTE THAT. IT'S MY
UNDERSTANDING IN ORDER TO GET
THIS VISIT DONE THAT THERE NEEDS
TO BE AN ANNOUNCEMENT
.
>> IN YOUR OPENING YOU SAID AT
THE VERY SAME TIME THAT
APPARENTLY THERE WAS A MEETING
WITH RUDY GIULIANI. AND IT WAS
UNDERSCORED.
THE THE POTUS MEETING WILL NOT
HAPPEN. IT'S JUST NOT GOING TO
HAPPEN. YOUR UNDERSTANDING OF
THE DIFFERENCE.
BUT WHAT YOU'RE SAYING. THE
MEETING YOU ARE TALKING ABOUT
WAS APPARENTLY A MEETING THAT
RUDY GIULIANI WAS HAVING AT THE
SAME TIME IN UKRAINE UNBEKNOWNST
TO US.
>>
THEY SAID IT'S NOT GOING TO
HAPPEN. THERE'S NO NOTICE OF IT
BEING CONDITIONAL. THIS WAS AN
EXCHANGE WITH AMBASSADOR
VOLKER. HE SAID DO NOT LET OTHER
PEOPLE SPEAK FOR THE U.S.
GOVERNMENT.
>> IF RUDY GIULIANI IS FOLLOWING
THE DIRECTIONS
AND SAYING IT IS CONDITIONAL.
WHO IS GIVE YOU THE INSTRUCTIONS
TO SAY WHAT YOU'RE SAYING? BUT
THAT'S WHY WE THOUGHT IT WAS
PROBLEMATIC TO WORK WITH RUDY
GIULIANI.
>> DID YOU HAVE CONVERSATIONS
WITH THE CHIEF OF STAFF TO SAY
WHAT YOU ARE SAYING
. ARE YOU TALKING IN THE JULY 10
MEETING?
>> AT THAT POINT AMBASSADOR
VOLKER WAS IN TOUCH WITH RUDY
GIULIANI.
>> YOU HAD NO DIRECT
CONVERSATIONS TO MAKE THIS
STATEMENT
>> ONLY THE TEXT AND EMAILS THAT
I HAVE ALREADY REVIEWED.
>> THANK YOU. MY TIME IS UP.
>> I ALSO WANT TO THANK YOU FOR
YOUR RECOGNITION AND YOUR
HARD-WORKING STAFF. YOU
TESTIFIED THAT YOU NEVER
RECEIVED ANY DIRECT CONFIRMATION
OR SPECIFIC INFORMATION AS TO
WHY THERE WAS A HOLD ON AID? BUT
THAT IS CORRECT.
>> YOU TESTIFIED THAT PRESIDENT
DONALD TRUMP NEVER TOLD ME
DIRECTLY THAT THE AIDE WAS
CONDITIONAL ON THE INVESTIGATION
. YOU SAID YOU NEVER HEARD THOSE
WORDS FROM THE PRESIDENT
INSTEAD YOU TESTIFIED IN YOUR
SEPTEMBER 9 CALL THAT THE
PRESIDENT SAID NO QUID PRO QUO.
I WANT NOTHING. I WANT
PRESIDENT VOLODYMYR ZELENSKY TO
DO THE RIGHT THING. TO DO WHAT
HE RAN ON. IS THAT CORRECT? THAT
IS CORRECT.
>> THE AIDE WAS GIVEN WITHOUT
ANY ANNOUNCEMENT OF NEW
INVESTIGATION? AND PRESIDENT
DONALD TRUMP DID MEET WITH
PRESIDENT VOLODYMYR ZELENSKY IN
SEPTEMBER AT THE UNITED NATIONS.
>> HEATED.
>> AND THERE WAS NO ANNOUNCEMENT
OF INVESTIGATIONS BEFORE THIS
MEETING ?
>> CORRECT.
>> YOU HAVE BEEN VERY CLEAR WHAT
CHAIRMAN ADAM SCHIFF HAS ASKED
YOU ABOUT. YOU HAVE CORRECTED
THAT TO SAY SPECIFICALLY YOUR
UNDERSTANDING OF INVESTIGATIONS
ARE INTO THE 2016 ELECTIONS AND
INTO BRISBANE. IS THAT CORRECT?
>> ARE YOU AWARE DURING THE
OBAMA ADMINISTRATION THAT THE
U.S. PARTNERED WITH
THE UNITED KINGDOM AND UKRAINE
ON AN INVESTIGATION INTO
BRISBANE ?
>> I BECAME AWARE OF IT TODAY
DURING THE HEARING.
>> IN FACT. THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION STATE DEPARTMENT
WAS CONCERNED ABOUT THE
POTENTIAL APPEARANCE OF A
CONFLICT OF INTEREST WITH HUNTER
BIDEN
ON THE BOARD OF CHARISMA. ARE
YOU AWARE THAT? BUT I'M NOT
AWARE OF THAT.
>> I HAVE ASKED MOST OF THE
WITNESSES THIS. EVERY WITNESS
HAS SAID YES. I WANT TO ASK YOU
THIS. DO YOU BELIEVE THAT HUNTER
BIDEN HAD A
POSITION ON BRISBANE HAS THE
APPEARANCE OF A CONFLICT OF
INTEREST?
>> I DO NOT WANT TO CHARACTERIZE
HUNTER BIDEN SERVICE ON THE
BOARD ONE WAY OR THE OTHER. I DO
NOT KNOW ENOUGH
>> A POTENTIAL APPEARANCE.
>> I DIDN'T HEAR APPEARANCE. IT
IS AN APPEARANCE OF AN
APPEARANCE. AGAIN THIS IS
SOMETHING THAT EVERY WITNESS HAS
ANSWERED
YES TO THAT IT COULD HAVE A
POTENTIAL APPEARANCE. BUT YET WE
ARE NOT ALLOWED TO CALL HUNTER
BIDEN TO ANSWER QUESTIONS IN
FRONT OF THIS COMMITTEE. THANK
YOU FOR YOUR TRUTHFUL TESTIMONY
I YELLED BACK.
>> AND VASSAR SONDLAND YOU WERE
TOLD BY THE PRESIDENT TO NOT
SHOW UP . YOU SHOWED UP. I THINK
THAT SAYS A LOT
ABOUT YOU. AND I THINK HISTORY
WILL LOOK KINDLY ON YOU DOING
THAT. THERE ARE CONSEQUENCES TO
THAT. JUST A COUPLE OF HOURS
AGO. AND PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP
ASKED ABOUT YOU.
HE SAID I DO NOT KNOW HIM WELL
I'M NOT SPOKEN TO HIM MUCH. IS
THAT TRUE?
>> HE HAS SPOKEN TO YOU OFTEN?
BUT 20 TIMES ?
>> OF THAT IS OFTEN.
>> YOU DONATED $1 MILLION TO HIS
INAUGURAL COMMITTEE?
>>
I BOUGHT A TICKET TO THE
INAUGURATION. SO THAT'S A LOT OF
MONEY IS IN IT.
>> THAT IS A LOT OF MONEY.
>> AND HE BECAME AMBASSADOR TO
THE EUROPEAN UNION
. THE AMBASSADOR TO UKRAINE WAS
REMOVED AND YOU BECAME A CENTRAL
FIGURE AS IT RELATES. THAT'S A
PRETTY BIG RESPONSIBILITY.
>> I DON'T KNOW THAT I SAID I
WAS A CENTRAL FIGURE. I WAS A
TASK TO WORK ON THE UKRAINE
FILE.
>> AND DID YOU TAKE ANY ACTIONS
WERE NOT AUTHORIZED BY PRESIDENT
DONALD TRUMP?
>>
BY PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP OR THE
LEADERSHIP IN THE STATE
DEPARTMENT.
>> WE EVER HAULED IN FOR ANY
ACTIONS THAT YOU HAD TAKEN ON
YOUR WORK WITH UKRAINE?
BUCKNELL.
>> AS TO RUDY GIULIANI. THE
PRESIDENT TOLD YOU TALK TO RUDY.
YOU TALK TO HIM A COUPLE OF
TIMES
. AND YOU TALK TO THE PRESIDENT
A COUPLE TIMES. DID THE
PRESIDENT EVER SAY TO YOU STOP
TALKING TO RUDY ?
>> NO.
>> DID HE SAY DO NOT TALK TO
RUDY. YOU SAID THAT YOU ARE
PLAYING THE HAND YOU WERE DEALT.
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP WAS THE
DEALER WASN'T HE?
IN YOUR METAPHOR YOU ARE PLAYING
THE HAND YOU'RE DEALT. IN THE
DEALER WAS TRUMP SEA.
>> I WILL RECHARACTERIZE THE
QUESTION BY SAYING THAT WE
FOLLOW THE DIRECTION OF THE
PRESIDENT BECAUSE THAT WAS THE
ONLY PATHWAY TO WORK WITH
UKRAINE.
>> ON PAGE 4 OF YOUR TESTIMONY
YOU SAID GIVEN WHAT WE KNOW AND
WHAT WE KNEW AT THE TIME WHAT WE
ARE ASKED TO DO DID NOT APPEAR
TO BE WRONG. YOU WOULD AGREE NOW
KNOWING WHAT YOU KNOW. THERE ARE
SOME THINGS THAT WERE WRONG ?
>> I AGREE.
>> LET'S TAKE OUT ANY LEVERAGING
OF
SECURITY ASSISTANCE. WOULD YOU
AGREE THAT IT IS WRONG FOR THE
PRESENT UNITED STATES TO ASK THE
LEADER OF A FOREIGN GOVERNMENT
TO INVESTIGATE THE PRESENT
UNITED STATES POLITICAL
OPPONENT?
>> WOULD YOU AGREE IN ADDITION
TO MAKING THAT INVESTIGATION
THAT LEVERAGING A VISIT THAT A
FOREIGN GOVERNMENT LEADER
DESPERATELY NEEDS IS ALSO WRONG?
>> IN WHAT RESPECT?
>> A MEETING AT THE WHITE HOUSE.
IF THEY NEED TO SHOW THEIR
LEGITIMACY THAT LEVERAGING THAT
AND ASKING FOR AN INVESTIGATION
WOULD BE WRONG ?
>> EVERY MEETING AT THE WHITE
HOUSE HAS CONDITIONS. I'VE NEVER
WORKED ON A MEETING THAT DOESN'T
HAVE A HOST OF CONDITIONS.
>> WHAT IS IT MEAN WHEN IT'S
INVEST GETTING A POLITICAL
OPPONENT.
>> MAKING ANNOUNCEMENTS OR
INVESTIGATIONS.
>> IF YOU ASK A FOREIGN LEADER
TO INVESTIGATE YOUR OPPONENT.
AND LEVERAGE SECURITY ASSISTANCE
. YOU HYPOTHETICALLY WOULD AGREE
THAT THAT IS WRONG.
>> YES.
>> YOU WORKED ON A LOT OF DEALS
INVOLVING MILLIONS OF DOLLARS
YOU WORKED FOR A GUY WHO WROTE
"ART OF THE DEAL". AND STATE
DEPARTMENT EMPLOYEES THAT THEY
DON'T WANT TO MAKE LEGAL
DEFINITIONS AROUND WHAT OCCURRED
WITH THE WHITE HOUSE BEING
LEVERAGED AGAINST THE
INVESTIGATION. YOU CALL IT QUID
PRO QUO.
>> I DID.
>> FINALLY. ONE FINAL
HYPOTHETICAL. IF SOMEBODY WALKS
THROUGH THOSE TWO DOORS WEARING
RAIN BOOTS , RAIN BOOTS
, UMBRELLA WITH THE RAINDROPS.
YOU HAVE TO SEE THAT IT'S
RAINING TO CONCLUDE THAT IT
MIGHT BE RAINING OUTSIDE?
>> I UNDERSTAND YOUR
HYPOTHETICAL.
>> I GO BACK.
>> IT'S GOOD TO SEE YOU AND
VASSAR SONDLAND. MY COLLEAGUES
IN  CALIFORNIA IMPLIED THAT YOU
HAVE BEEN SUPPORTIVE OF
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP'S
CAMPAIGN.
IS THAT CORRECT?
>> I DONATED TO THE INAUGURAL
COMMITTEE TO SECURE TICKETS.
>> DID YOU PARTICIPATE IN OR
OVERHEAR ANY CONVERSATIONS ABOUT
THE POTENTIAL INFORMATION
COLLECTED BY UKRAINE ON THE
BIDENS TO BE USED FOR POLITICAL
GAIN?
>> THAT I PERSONALLY HEAR THAT?
NO.
>> DID YOU PARTICIPATE IN THIS
CONVERSATION?
>> IN YOUR STATEMENT ON PAGE 5.
YOU SAID THAT RUDY GIULIANI'S
REQUEST FOR QUIT PRO QUOTE TO
ARRANGE A WHITE HOUSE VISIT WITH
A
UKRAINE
PRESENT. HOW DO YOU RECONCILE
THESE TWO STATEMENTS? BUT
THEY'RE HARD TO RECONCILE. WE
WERE WORKING ALONG
RUDY GIULIANI'S DIRECTION. WE
STILL DID NOT HAVE A WHITE HOUSE
MEETING. THE AIDE WAS HELD UP.
AND THERE WERE A LOT OF REASONS
BEING GIVEN AS TO WHY THOSE WERE
NOT MOVING FORWARD. I FINALLY
GOT EXASPERATED
BY RECEIVING AND VASSAR TAILORS
LATEST TEXT. I PICKED UP THE
PHONE AND GOT THROUGH TO THE
PRESENCE OF WHAT YOU WANT?
>> ARE YOU AWARE OF ANY SPECIFIC
CONVERSATIONS THAT RUDY GIULIANI
HAD WITH THE PRESIDENT BETWEEN
MAY 23 AND SEPTEMBER 11?
>> I DO NOT RECALL IF
RUDY GIULIANI QUOTED FROM THE
PRESIDENT OR SAID I JUST TALKED
TO THE PRESENT. MOST OF THE
COMMUNICATION WENT THROUGH
AMBASSADOR VOLKER INITIALLY.
>> ON PAGE 11 YOU SAID THAT RUDY
GIULIANI HAD BEEN COMMUNICATING
WITH THE UKRAINIANS WITHOUT OUR
KNOWLEDGE.
WHICH UKRAINIANS WAS RUDY
GIULIANI SPECIFICALLY
COMMUNICATING WITH ?
>> I WAS SPEAKING TO THE TEXT
THAT I WAS REFERRING TO WITH
AMBASSADOR VOLKER.
>> WHO SPECIFICALLY?
>> WE KNOW THAT RUDY GIULIANI
HAS MET WITH THE FRINGE OF
MEANINGS. DO YOU KNOW ANY
UKRAINIAN OFFICIAL THAT RUDY
GIULIANI MET WITH ?
>> I DO NOT KNOW WHO HE WAS
MEETING WITH.
>> DID YOU HAVE ANY
CONVERSATIONS WITH UKRAINIAN
OFFICIALS THAT CAME TO YOU
AND SAID I JUST GOT OFF THE
PHONE AND WHAT IS HE TALKING
ABOUT? BUT I DO NOT RECALL.
>> WITH ABBY NORMAL? IN ALL OF
YOUR INTERACTION. IF THERE IS
SOME ELEMENT OF THE U.S.
GOVERNMENT THAT THEY HAVE SPOKEN
TO. ISN'T IT USUALLY TRUE THAT
THEY COME IN TO THE AMBASSADOR
AND TRY TO CLARIFY THE
STATEMENT.
>> THINGS WORK ALL DIFFERENT
KINDS OF WAYS THESE DAYS.
EXPECTED THE INVESTIGATIONS OR
JOE BIDEN COME UP.
>> AS TESTIFIED EVERYONE SAID IT
WAS A GOOD CALL.
>> YOUR INTERACTION WITH
PRESIDENT VOLODYMYR ZELENSKY AS
HE IS STRAIGHT
SHOOTER OR A LIAR?
>> HE IMPRESSED ME GREATLY. AND
THAT IS WHY I WANTED TO GET HIM
AND PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP
TOGETHER AS SOON AS POSSIBLE. SO
WHEN HE MAKES STATEMENTS YOU
BELIEVE HIM? I GUESS WITH MY
LIMITED INTERACTION HE SEEMS
HONORABLE.
>> THANK YOU INVESTOR HOPE YOU
MAKE IT PLAIN.
>> GOOD AFTERNOON AND VASSAR
SONDLAND. OTHERS CLOSE TO
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP HAVE MADE
IT CLEAR  THAT INVESTIGATIONS
WERE PART OF A CONDITION FOR
U.S. ASSISTANCE TO UKRAINE.
INCLUDING
RUDY GIULIANI AND ACTING CHIEF
OF STAFF MULVANEY. SO SONDLAND
ACTING WHITE HOUSE CHIEF OF
STAFF DISCUSSED HIS BELIEF THAT
IT IS ENTIRELY APPROPRIATE TO
POLITICIZE U.S. FOREIGN POLICY.
HOW OFTEN DID YOU SPEAK OR MEET
WITH MR. MULVANEY?
>> I AM GOING BY A BAD MEMORY.
>> I THINK I ONLY HAD ONE FORMAL
MEETING WITH MR. MULVANEY. IT
WAS ON A COMPLETELY UNRELATED
MATTER.
>> DID YOU HAVE A CHANCE TO TALK
WITH MR. MULVANEY ABOUT YOUR
EFFORTS?
BUT MOST OF THE COMMUNICATION
WAS THROUGH A STREAM OF EMAILS
THAT OTHERS WERE ON GENERALLY. I
MAY HAVE SEEN HIM AT THE WHITE
HOUSE CASUALLY AND SAID HELLO
AND KEPT IN TOUCH. WE DID NOT
HAVE A BACK-AND-FORTH.
>> WAS A YOUR SENSE THAT MR.
MULVANEY HAD A DIRECT LINE TO
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP AS ACTING
CHIEF OF STAFF? BUT LET'S LOOK
AT WHAT MR. MULVANEY SAID DURING
A PRESS CONFERENCE ON OCTOBER
17.
>> THOSE WERE THE DRIVING
FACTORS. DID HE MENTION THE
CORRUPTION RELATED TO THE DNC
SERVER. ABSOLUTELY. NO QUESTION.
THAT IS WHY WE HELD UP THE
MONEY.
>> HE WAS WORRIED ABOUT THE
CORRUPTION WITH THAT NATION.
THAT IS ABSOLUTELY APPROPRIATE.
>> HE IS THE CHIEF OF STAFF AND
HAS CONVERSATIONS WITH THE
PRESENT EVERY SINGLE DAY. WHAT
DO YOU EXPECT THAT?
>> I WOULD EXPECT HE HAS A
DIRECT LINE TO THE PRESENT. WHEN
DID YOU FIRST LEARN THAT THE
INVESTIGATIONS WERE HOLDING UP
THE SECURITY ASSISTANCE?
>>
AND VASSAR SONDLAND I KNOW THAT
YOU ARE NOT A CAREER FOREIGN
SERVICE OFFICER. IS IT YOUR
UNDERSTANDING THAT  THE SECURITY
SYSTEM INVESTIGATES POLITICAL
RIVALS.
>> I HAVE ALREADY TESTIFIED THAT
I DID NOT THINK THAT THAT WOULD
BE PROPER.
>> LET'S SEE WHAT MR. MULVANEY
HAD TO SAY ABOUT THAT AT THE
SAME PRESS CONFERENCE.
BUT THOSE ARE THE DRIVING
FACTORS.
DID HE MENTION IN PASSING THE
CORRUPTION RELATED TO THE DNC
SERVER. ABSOLUTELY. NO QUESTION
ABOUT THAT. THAT IS WHY WE HELD
UP THE MONEY.
>> I WILL GO AHEAD AND READ IT
FOR YOU.
>> I HAVE NEWS FOR EVERYBODY.
GET OVER IT. THERE'S GOING TO BE
POLITICAL INFLUENCE AND FOREIGN
POLICY.
>> KNOWING WHAT YOU KNOW NOW, DO
YOU AGREE WITH MR. MULVANEY
, THAT WE SHOULD ALL GET OVER IT
AND ALLOW A PRESIDENT NOW OR
LATER TO INVESTIGATE A POLITICAL
RIVAL?
>> I THINK THERE'S A BIG
DIFFERENCE BETWEEN POLITICAL
INFLUENCE AND INVESTIGATING
ARRIVAL. POLITICS ENTERS INTO
EVERYTHING.
>> YOU AGREE THAT THE PRESIDENT
SHOULD NOT BE ALLOWED TO ASK FOR
THE INVESTIGATION OF A POLITICAL
RIVAL ?
>> IN THE CONTEXT OF WHAT WAS
GOING ON IN UKRAINE I BELIEVE
THAT THE PRESIDENT SHOULD NOT
INVESTIGATE A POLITICAL RIVAL
FOR QUIT PRO QUOTE.
>> THE PRESIDENT DID NOT TELL
YOU, HE SAID DIRECTLY TO
PRESIDENT VOLODYMYR ZELENSKY
THAT HE WANTED THE BIDENS
INVESTIGATED.
BUT BASED ON WHAT I KNEW I
THOUGHT WE WERE OPERATING IN THE
CENTER LANE
.
>> I YIELD BACK.
>> I LIKE TO ENTER INTO RECORD
. AND VASSAR SONDLAND I WILL BE
BRIEF.  IN ANTICIPATION OF
MR. HOLMES'S TESTIMONY TOMORROW.
ABOUT THIS JULY PHONE CALL  THAT
HE OVERHEARD AT A CAF IN KYIV.
THE CALL WAS NOT ON SPEAKER ?
>> I DO NOT BELIEVE SO.
>> AN OPEN AIR CAF?
>> OUTDOORS. BUT ONE OF THE
POINTS THAT MY DEMOCRATIC
COLLEAGUES CONTINUE TO MAKE IS
THAT
DAVID HOLMES'S PRIOR TESTIMONY
THAT PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP SAID
THAT HE DOESN'T GIVE A BLANK
ABOUT UKRAINE. YOU HEARD THAT
EARLIER.
>> THAT WAS NOT ON THE PHONE
CALL. I DON'T THINK THAT HE
TESTIFIED THAT THAT WAS ON THE
PHONE CALL. HE TESTIFIED THAT I
SUMMARIZED THE PHONE CALL AND I
DID NOT SAY THAT. YOU HAVE NO
RECOLLECTION OF THAT?
>> I DO NOT.
>> EVEN IF THAT IS TRUE THERE IS
NO PROBLEM HAVING AN OPINION
ABOUT UKRAINE.
>> IT'S ALL THE NARRATIVE THAT
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP IS A BAD
GUY BECAUSE HE DOESN'T CARE
ABOUT THE UKRAINIANS. IT SEEMS
TO ME THAT AND VASSAR SONDLAND
NOTHING SAYS YOU CAN  CARE MORE
THAN SENDING MISSILES. DO YOU
AGREE WITH ME?
>> I
AGREE SENDING MISSILES IS
SOMETHING THAT UKRAINE WANTED
AND NEEDED.
>> THOSE WORK A LOT BETTER AT
STOPPING RUSSIAN TANKS.
>> YOUR POINT IS TAKEN.
>> THANK YOU FOR YOUR STAMINA
FAIRLY EASY QUESTIONS. WOULD YOU
AGREE THAT FOREIGN INTERFERENCE
IN OUR ELECTIONS CAN BE A THREAT
TO OUR DEMOCRACY?
>> UNDER CERTAIN
CONDITIONS.
>> THERE ARE CERTAIN CONDITIONS
WHERE IT'S NOT A THREAT? WHAT
DID YOU SAY FOREIGN
INTERFERENCE.
>> ALWAYS.
>> DO YOU AGREE THAT IDENTIFYING
AND PREVENTING THAT INFERENCE
SHOULD BE A PRIORITY TO THE
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT ?
>> IT SHOULD BE ONE OF THE
PRIORITIES.
>>
WHEN YOU ARE ASSISTING PRESIDENT
DONALD TRUMP DID YOU REALIZE OF
THOSE INVESTIGATIONS COULD
IMPACT THE 2020 ELECTION?
>> NO.
>> DO YOU BELIEVE THAT IT IS
EVER APPROPRIATE TO INVITE,
PRESS, BRIBE, OR COERCE
INTERFERENCE INTO THE ELECTION ?
>> NO.
BUT I WANT TO REFER TO SOMETHING
THAT YOU SAID IN YOUR OPENING
STATEMENT.
IF I HAD PREVIOUSLY KNOWN OF
RUDY GIULIANI'S DEALINGS. I
WOULD NOT HAVE ACQUIESCED TO THE
PRECIPITATION PARTICIPATION.
IT'S HARD TO READ THAT WITHOUT
SAYING THAT YOU THOUGHT IT
WASN'T WRONG OR NOT REPUTABLE?
>> WITH 2020 HINDSIGHT THAT IS
FAIR.
>> YOU TESTIFIED THAT YOU CAME
TO BELIEVE THAT THE REQUEST FOR
INVESTIGATION INTO BURISMA WAS A
REQUEST TO INVESTIGATE THE
BIDENS.
INDEED THE TRANSCRIPT OF THE
CALL MAKES SPECIFIC REFERENCE TO
THAT. INCLUDING HUNTER BIDEN.
AND RANKING MEMBERS SAID WE
COULD CLEAR THIS ALL UP
IF HUNTER BIDEN COULD TESTIFY. I
HAVE A SIMPLE QUESTION. WHAT
UKRAINIAN LAW DID HUNTER BIDEN
VIOLATE ?
>> I AM NOT AWARE.
>> THERE IS NONE. FINALLY.
ALSO FROM YOUR OPENING
STATEMENT. YOU SAID
AS YOU KNOW I HAVE PROVIDED 10
HOURS OF DEPOSITION TESTIMONY. I
DID SO DESPITE DIRECTORS FROM
THE WHITE HOUSE AND THE STATE
DEPARTMENT THAT I REFUSED TO
APPEAR AS MANY OTHERS HAVE DONE.
I AGREED TO TESTIFY BECAUSE I
RESPECT THE GRAVITY OF THE
MOMENT. I BELIEVE I HAVE AN
OBLIGATION TO ACCOUNT FULLY FOR
MY ROLE IN THESE EVENTS. BY
OBLIGATION DID YOU MEAN YOUR
LEGAL OBLIGATION OR DID YOU MEAN
SOMETHING BIGGER?
>> MY LEGAL AND MORAL
OBLIGATION.
>>
BECAUSE THEY KNEW THAT IT WAS
HERE THAT THEY COULD HAVE
FREEDOM THAT THEY HAD NOT
ENJOYED, SECURITY THAT THEY HAD
NOT ENJOYED, AND OPPORTUNITY
THAT THEY HAD NOT ENJOYED. NO
DOUBT ON SOME LEVEL, A
SENSE OF PATRIOTISM IN YOU, IS
THAT FAIR TO SAY?
>> VERY FAIR.
>> WHY THEN WITH YOUR COURAGE TO
COME BEFORE SCOTT DOES THAT SAME
STANDARD NOT APPLY TO MICK
MULVANEY, MR. DUFFY, MR. POMPEO,
MR. GIULIANI,
WHY SHOULD THOSE SAME SENTIMENTS
NOT BE WITHIN THEIR HEARTS TO DO
THEIR PATRIOTIC DUTY AND DO WHAT
YOU HAVE DONE SIR, INDEED WHY
DOES THAT SAME STANDARD APPLIED
TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES?
>> I WISH I COULD ANSWER.
>> I SUSPECT YOU CAN'T BECAUSE
THERE IS NO GOOD ANSWER, BUT I
DO APPRECIATE YOUR WILLINGNESS
TO COME HERE TODAY. WITH THAT I
YIELD BACK.
>> MR. JORDAN?
>> UNANIMOUS CONSENT TO ENTER
INTO THE RECORD A STATEMENT FROM
MICK MULVANEY.
>> WE HAVE NOT SEEN THESE
STATEMENTS, I PRESUME THEY ARE
ACCURATE AND NO OBJECTION.
>> THANK YOU, PRESIDENT TRUMP IS
NOT A BIG FAN OF FOREIGN AID IS
THAT RIGHT?
>> I DON'T KNOW IF THAT'S A FAIR
CHARACTERIZATION, I THINK HE IS
CAREFUL.
>> FAIR ENOUGH, HE KNEW UKRAINE
WAS CORRUPT, IS THAT RIGHT?
>> YES.
>> AND THE PRESIDENT HAD A
BELIEF THAT THE UKRAINIAN
GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS, THE SENIOR
OFFICIALS SUPPORTED
THE OPPONENT, A MEMBER OF
PARLIAMENT SAID THE MAJORITY OF
UKRAINIAN POLITICIANS
WANT HILLARY CLINTON TO WIN, HE
HAD THAT BELIEF AS WELL, HE
UNDERSTOOD WHAT WAS HAPPENING, A
BRAND-NEW GUY IN UKRAINE, IF
THIS ZELINSKI GUY WINS. AND WITH
THESE OTHER GUYS, HE WANTS TO
SEE IF THE NEW GUY IS THE REAL
DEAL AND DEAL WITH THE
CORRUPTION PROBLEM. THE AID GETS
HELD UP FOR 55 DAYS, UNDULATE --
HELD UP ON JULY 18, RELEASED ON
SEPTEMBER 11, 55 DAYS, BUT MORE
IMPORTANT IT SEEMS TO ME IS THE
14 DAYS, WHEN UKRAINE REALIZED
AID WAS HELD UP ON THE 29th,
WE'VE HAD YOU TESTIFY TO THAT,
AND A POLITICAL ARTICLE. AID
GETS HELD UP ON -- UKRAINE
LEARNS THAT IT IS SET UP ON
AUGUST 29, AND THEN OF COURSE
RELEASED ON SEPTEMBER 11. IN
THOSE 14 DAYS THERE ARE THREE
IMPORTANT MEETINGS WITH SENIOR
GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS AND
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY.  BETWEEN
AMBASSADOR BOLTON, AND
ZELENSKY, AND VICE PRESIDENT
PENCE, AND SEPTEMBER 5, WHERE
U.S. SENATORS MURPHY AND JOHNSON
MEET WITH PRESIDENT ZELENSKY.
NONE OF THOSE MEETINGS, DID ANY
LINKAGE TO
SECURITY ASSISTANCE DOLLARS AND
AN ANNOUNCEMENT OR START OF ANY
INVESTIGATION EVER,. NONE OF
THEM.
BUT THE ONE THAT IS MOST
IMPORTANT IS PROBABLY THE ONE WE
HAVE TALKED LEAST ABOUT, THAT IS
THE SEPTEMBER 5 MEETING. THAT IS
A MEETING WHERE THERE IS NO ONE
-- WELL, IT IS MUCH MORE
CONGRESSIONAL FOCUSED THAN WHITE
HOUSE FOCUSED. SENATORS MURPHY,
AND JOHNSON, BIPARTISAN, MEET
WITH
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY. WHAT IS
INTERESTING IS THAT  WHAT THEY
HAVE GIVEN US CUT OUR LETTERS
REGARDING WHAT HAPPENED IN THE
MEETING. SENATOR MURPHY SAID I
BROACHED THE TOPIC, AND THE
OTHER EMISSARIES TO LAUNCH
INVESTIGATIONS INTO THEIR
POLITICAL RIVALS, MURPHY BROUGHT
IT UP. YOU HAVE 2 SENATORS WERE
BOTH STRONG SUPPORTERS OF
MONEY, UKRAINE, ALL AFFORD,
SENATOR MURPHY, A DEMOCRAT,
RINGS OF THE ISSUE EVERYONE HAS
BEEN TALKING ABOUT. IT SEEMS TO
ME IF EVER THERE WAS GOING TO BE
A TIME WHERE THE PRESIDENT OF
UKRAINE SAYS GUYS, YOU DON'T
KNOW WHAT I'M DEALING WITH, I
DIDN'T PRESSURE FROM THE
PRESIDENT OF UNITED STATES, HE
WANTS ME TO DO THIS, IT SEEMS IF
THERE EVER THERE WAS A TIME, THE
NEW GUY, WHO KNOWS THE HAS BEEN
ON HOLD, IF EVER THERE WAS A
TIME TO BRING IT UP, THAT WAS
THE TIME.
BUT GUESS WHAT, AT NO TIME,
SENATOR JOHNSON TELLS US, DURING
THIS MEETING OR ANY OTHER
MEETING ON THIS TRIP, WAS THERE
ANY MENTION BY ZELENSKY OR ANY
OTHER UKRAINIANS THAT THEY WERE
FEELING PRESSURE  TO DO ANYTHING
IN RETURN FOR MILITARY AID, NOT
EVEN
NOT EVEN AFTER MURPHY WARNED
THEM ABOUT GETTING INVOLVED IN
THE ELECTION. SO A BIG DEAL ON
GIULIANI AND NOTHING. I DON'T
DISPUTE ANY FACTUAL
-- REGARDING THE MEETING.
SEPTEMBER 5 WAS THE DAY, NO ONE
FROM THE WHITE HOUSE WAS THERE,
NOT AMBASSADOR BOLTON, NO ONE
THERE, BUT WE'VE GOT ALL KINDS
OF OTHER MEETINGS WHAT HAPPENED,
AND AS YOU TESTIFIED EARLIER,
THERE WAS NEVER AN ANNOUNCEMENT.
THERE WERE 3 QUID PRO QUOS, BUT
THERE WEREN'T, THERE WAS NEVER
AN ANNOUNCEMENT. THIS IS AS
CLEAR AS IT GETS, THESE GUYS
KEEP WANT TO STIRRED UP -- KEEP
STIRRING IT UP,
BASED ON NO DIRECT EVIDENCE, AND
THE BEST DIRECT EVIDENCE WE
HAVE, THE PRESIDENT TOLD YOU, I
WANT NOTHING, THERE IS NO?
QUOTE, I WANT ZELENSKY TO DO
EXACTLY WHAT HE CAMPAIGNED ON,
AND WHEN THAT BECAME CLEAR TO
US, GUESS WHAT, THEY GOT THE
MONEY. GOD BLESS AMERICA, IT ALL
WORKED OUT, RIGHT? THIS IS CRAZY
WHAT WE ARE GOING THROUGH. THE
FACTS ARE SO DARN CLEAR, I YIELD
BACK.
>> MR. WELCH
?
>> AMBASSADOR, I AM IMPRESSED
WITH YOUR CAREER, VERY IMPRESSED
WITH YOUR SUCCESS, AND YOUR
PUBLIC SERVICE, AND IMPRESSED
WITH YOUR FORTHRIGHT STATEMENT,
THANK YOU FOR THAT. YOU SAID IT
WAS THE HIGHEST HONOR FOR YOU TO
HAVE THIS OPPORTUNITY TO HAVE
THIS APPOINTMENT, TO SERVE AS
AMBASSADOR TO THE EU
, CORRECT?
>> CORRECT.
>> YOU QUICKLY BECAME INVOLVED
IN UKRAINE POLICY, THAT HAS BEEN
DESCRIBED BY YOU AND OTHERS,
REALLY VERY CLEAR, TO HELP
UKRAINE FIGHT INTERNAL
CORRUPTION AND RESIST
EXTERNAL AGGRESSION, CORRECT?
>> CORRECT.
>> AND THIS CONGRESS, WITH THE
SUPPORT OF EVERYONE APPEAR,
REPUBLICANS AND DEMOCRATS, WITH
A SIGNIFICANT AMOUNT OF
REPUBLICAN LEADERSHIP,
AUTHORIZED THE RELEASE OF
MILITARY AID. AND YOU AND OTHERS
WHO WERE WORKING THERE, BUT
BELIEVED IT WAS VERY IMPORTANT
TO THE NEW GOVERNMENT, PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY, TO HAVE THE WHITE
HOUSE MEETING TO SHOW OUR
SUPPORT,  AND SEND A SIGNAL TO
RUSSIA, CORRECT?
>> THAT IS CORRECT.
>> FROM HEARING YOU AND THE
OTHER WITNESSES, AMBASSADOR
YOVANOVITCH, AND VOLKER
AND MORE, IT WAS IMPORTANT TO
RELEASE THE AID? BECAUSE THERE
WAS A CONCERTED EFFORT ON MY
PART TO GET THE MEETING, THAT
WAS MY SINGULAR NARROW
FOCUS, TO GET THE MEETING.
>> THAT WAS SHARED BY ALL THE
COLLEAGUES I JUST MENTIONED,
CORRECT?
>> YES.
>> INCREDIBLY URGENT,
AMBASSADOR TAYLOR DESCRIBED
GOING TO THE FRONT, WHERE
UKRAINIANS WERE DYING AT THE DON
BASS, IT WAS A
EXISTENTIAL ISSUE FOR THEM THAT
THEY GET THE AID, YOU WERE WELL
AWARE OF THAT, AND I'M SURE
SHARED HIS CONCERNS. IS THAT
CORRECT?
>> I DID.
>> AND IN YOUR FORTHRIGHT
TESTIMONY,
YOU HAVE TESTIFIED, REALLY WITH
THE BENEFIT OF HINDSIGHT, THAT
YOU CAN PIECE IT ALL TOGETHER,
GIULIANI KNEW IN REAL TIME WHAT
YOU ARE TRYING TO FIGURE OUT AS
YOU WENT ALONG, IS THAT A FAIR
STATEMENT? BECAUSE I THINK SO.
>> YOU TESTIFIED THAT YOU ACTED
ON THE ORDERS OF THE PRESIDENT,
THAT WAS YOU ACTING ON HIS
ORDERS CORRECT?
>> CORRECT.
>> AND YOU SAID QUITE EXPLICITLY
THERE WAS A QUID PRO QUO?
>> RELATING TO THE MEETING AND
THE PRISMA -- BURISMA
.
>> NO MEETING UNLESS THERE IS A
INVESTIGATION RIGHT?
>> THAT IS WHAT WE WERE TOLD BY
GIULIANI.
>> AND --
>>
UNLESS THERE WAS AN ANNOUNCEMENT
OF AN INVESTIGATION.
>> DID
IT IMPEDE THE EFFORTS THAT YOU
AND OTHERS WERE MAKING TO TRY TO
ADVANCE THAT UKRAINE POLICY?
>> NOT INITIALLY.
>> ULTIMATELY?
>> ULTIMATELY NOTHING HAPPENED.
>> AND GIULIANI WAS INSISTENT ON
THE MEETING CORRECT? MEEKER THE
INVESTIGATION. --
>> THE INVESTIGATION.
>> OKAY. I ASKED THIS OF
AMBASSADOR VOLKER, IF THE MAYOR
OF PORTLAND SAYS TO THE POLICE
CHIEF, I'M NOT GOING TO
AUTHORIZE YOUR BUDGET UNLESS YOU
AGREED TO DO AN INVESTIGATION
INTO MY POLITICAL OPPONENT,
WOULD THAT BE WRONG?
>> OF COURSE.
>>
AND LIKEWISE, IF WERE THE
GOVERNOR OF THE STATE OF OREGON
DOING THE SAME THING CORRECT?
>> CORRECT.
>> WITH THE SAME ROLE APPLIED TO
THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES?
>> TO INVESTIGATE A POLITICAL
OPPONENT? YES.
>> THAT IS THE QUESTION HERE.
THE QUESTION IN -- IS, THE
PRESIDENT
ASKED THE PRESIDENT OF UKRAINE,
WHO DESPERATELY NEEDED AID AND A
MEETING, TO DO AN INVESTIGATION,
FOCUSED ON JOE BIDEN, HUNTER
BIDEN, BURISMA, AND CROWDSTRIKE.
YOU DON'T HAVE TO ANSWER THAT,
THE PRESIDENT'S WORDS SPEAK FOR
THEMSELVES. YOU FEEL, AS A
PERSON WHO WENT INTO SERVICE TO
SERVE,
WHO HAD A TEAM OF PEOPLE THAT
SHARED YOUR DESIRE TO HELP
UKRAINE, DO YOU FEEL IN ANY WAY
BETRAYED BY THE DOUBLEDEALING OF
THE PRESIDENT? THIS IS A REAL
QUESTION.
>> I DON'T WANT TO CHARACTERIZE
--
>> YOU DON'T HAVE TO
CHARACTERIZE HIM.
>> YOU DON'T HAVE TO, WE LIKE TO
DO SOMETHING USEFUL, NO BETTER
JOY THAN WHEN YOU'RE DOING IT
FOR OTHER PEOPLE AND WITH OTHER
PEOPLE.
>> LET ME ANSWER THIS WAY, I
WOULD HAVE PREFERRED, AND I'M
SURE EVERYONE WOULD HAVE
PREFERRED, THAT THE PRESIDENT
SIMPLY MET WITH
MR. ZELENSKY RIGHT AWAY, OUR
ASSESSMENT WAS THAT THEY WOULD
GET ON FAMOUSLY,  HE WAS SMART,
FUNNY, CHARMING,
THE KIND OF PERSON THAT THE
PRESIDENT WOULD LIKE, AND ONCE
THE TWO OF THEM GOT TOGETHER,
WITHOUT THE CHEMISTRY WOULD TAKE
OVER AND GOOD THINGS WOULD
HAPPEN BETWEEN THE U.S. AND THE
UKRAINE RELATIONSHIP, THAT IS
WHY WE WERE PUSHING FOR A?,
UNCONDITIONAL MEETING.
>>
SO IT WAS UNFORTUNATE THAT HE
WAS NOT WILLING TO MEET WITHOUT
THE COMMITMENT ON THE
INVESTIGATION. THANK YOU
AMBASSADOR.
>> THANK YOU.
>>> MR. MALONEY?
>> THIS PICK UP THERE,
YOU WOULD PREFERRED THAT THEY
WOULD JUST HAVE THE MEETING WITH
UKRAINE WITHOUT THESE
CONDITIONS, IS THAT WHAT YOU ARE
SAYING?
>> YES.
>> BUT THERE WERE CONDITIONS,
INVOLVING A INVESTIGATION?
>> THE INITIAL INVITATION THAT
THE PRESIDENT SENT TO PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY HAD NO CONDITIONS.
>> BUT THAT DIDN'T LAST VERY
LONG, DID IT? THEN THERE WERE
CONDITIONS, THIS IS NOT
CONTROVERSIAL I BELIEVE, THAT
THE PRESIDENT WANTED
INVESTIGATIONS. AND YOU THOUGHT
THEY WERE OF BURISMA IN THE 2015
ELECTION.  AND WE NOW KNOW THAT
BURISMA MEANS THE BIDENS?
>>
WE DO NOW.
>> AND SET ASIDE ANY CONFUSION
THAT WHEN SOMEBODY IS ASKING FOR
AN INVESTIGATION OF BURISMA OVER
THE SEVEN WHAT THEY REALLY MEANT
WAS  THE BIDENS.
>> WITH 2020 HINDSIGHT, YES.
>> RIGHT. THE DAY AFTER THE
PRESIDENT'S FAMOUS CALL,
YOU'RE HAVING LUNCH WITH DAVID
HOLMES, I KNOW YOU SAID YOU HAVE
NO REASON TO DISPUTE WOULD MR.
HOLMES SAID, AND I THINK YOU
SAID YOU WOULDN'T HAVE ANY
REASON TO
SAY YOU DIDN'T SPEAK ABOUT
INVESTIGATIONS WITH THE
PRESIDENT, HE RAISED
INVESTIGATIONS WITH YOU ON THE
26?
>> CORRECT.
>> THAT WAS ABOUT THE BIDENS AND
PRISMA -- BURISMA,  AND 2016?
>> MR. HOLMES SAYS YOU SAID
BIDENS AFTER THAT, BUT
YOU DON'T RECALL IT, DO YOU
DISPUTE IT?
>> I DO.
>> BUT YOU DON'T RECALL IT, AND
HE WANTED TO TALK ABOUT
INVESTIGATIONS WITH YOU?
>> WITH THE COMPLETE PICTURE,
WHAT HE SAID BEFORE.
>> OKAY. AND IT IS WRONG TO
INVESTIGATE LOCAL OPPONENTS, WE
AGREE ON THAT?
>> YES.
>> WE KNOW THAT IS WHAT THE
PRESIDENT WAS ASKING FOR. SO LET
ME ASK YOU SOMETHING, WHO WOULD
HAVE BENEFITED FROM AN
INVESTIGATION OF THE PRESIDENT'S
POLITICAL OPPONENTS?
>> I DON'T WANT TO CHARACTERIZE
WHO WOULD HAVE HER WOULD NOT
HAVE.
>> I KNOW YOU DON'T WANT TO
CHARACTERIZE, BUT PLEASE ANSWER
THE QUESTION.
>> PLEASE REPEAT.
>> WHO WOULD BENEFIT FROM
INVESTIGATION OF THE PRESIDENT'S
POLITICAL OPPONENTS?
>> PRESUMABLY THE PERSON WHO
ASKED FOR THE INVESTIGATION.
>> WHO IS THAT?
>> IF THE PRESIDENT ASKED FOR
THE INVESTIGATION, IT WOULD BE
HE.
>> IT IS NOT A HYPOTHETICAL. THE
PRESIDENT ASKED YOU ABOUT
INVESTIGATIONS, HE WAS TALKING
ABOUT THE BIDENS. WHEN HE ASKED
YOU ABOUT THE BIDENS, THE
INVESTIGATION,
WHO WAS HE SEEKING TO BENEFIT?
>> HE DID NOT ASKED ME ABOUT THE
BIDEN INVESTIGATION.
>> SIR, WE JUST WENT THROUGH
THIS.
WHEN YESTERDAY ABOUT
INVESTIGATIONS, WHICH WE AGREE
MEANS THE BIDENS, WE DID THIS 30
SECONDS AGO. CORRECT? IT IS A
SIMPLE QUESTION, I'M HAVING
TROUBLE
WHY YOU CAN'T JUST SAY --
>> WHEN HE ASKED ABOUT
INVESTIGATIONS, I ASSUMED IT
MEANT THE COMPANY.
>> WHO WOULD BENEFIT FROM THE
INVESTIGATION OF THE BIDENS?
>> THEY ARE TWO DIFFERENT
QUESTIONS.
>> I'M ASKING YOU ONE.
>> WHO WOULD BENEFIT FROM
INVESTIGATION OF THE BIDENS?
>> I ASSUME THE PRESIDENT.
>> THERE WE GO, YOU SEE, IT
DIDN'T HURT A BIT. LET ME ASK
YOU SOMETHING.
>> I HAVE BEEN VERY FORTHRIGHT,
AND I RESENT WHAT YOU'RE TRYING
TO SAY.
>> THIS IS YOUR THIRD TRY TO DO
SO. IT DIDN'T WORK SO WELL THE
FIRST TIME, DID IT? WE HAD A
LITTLE DECLARATION, AND AFTER,
WE ARE HERE A THIRD TIME,
AND WE GOT A DOOZY OF A
STATEMENT, THERE'S A WHOLE BUNCH
OF STUFF YOU DON'T RECALL, ALL
DUE RESPECT, WE APPRECIATE YOUR
CANDOR THAT'S YOUR CANDOR BUT
LET'S BE CLEAR ON WHAT IT TOOK
TO GET IT OUT OF YOU. MY
QUESTION IS, WHEN THE PRESIDENT
IS PUTTING PRESSURE ON
UKRAINIANS, WITHHOLDING A
MEETING, TO GET THIS
INVESTIGATION THAT YOU AND I
AGREE WOULD BENEFIT HIM
POLITICALLY.
WHAT KIND OF POSITION DOES THAT
PUT THE UKRAINIANS IN SIR?
>> A TERRIBLE POSITION.
>> WHY?
>> WHY DOES IT PUT HIM
-- THEM IN A TERRIBLE POSITION?
>> WHY.
>> THEY ARE NOT RECEIVING
ULTIMATELY WHAT THEY THOUGHT WAS
COMING TO THEM, IT PUTS THEM IN
A POSITION THAT JEOPARDIZES
THEIR SECURITY
.
>> IN A POSITION TO HELP THIS
SECURITY, BUT IT WOULD TO FIT
THE PRESIDENT POLITICALLY, THEY
ARE BEING ASKED TO GIVE THEM A
PERSONAL BENEFIT IN EXCHANGE FOR
AN OFFICIAL ACT, IS THAT A FAIR
SUMMARY?
>> IN YOUR HYPOTHETICAL TEST
>> IT IS NOT A HYPOTHETICAL.
THIS IS REAL LIFE,
WERE THEY ASKED TO GIVE HIM A
PERSONAL BENEFIT IN EXCHANGE FOR
AN OFFICIAL ACT?
>> SIR, I'M NOT GOING TO GO
AROUND IN CIRCLES, PLEASE BE
CLEAR ABOUT WHAT YOU ARE ASKING
ME.
>> MY TIME IS EXPIRED, THANK YOU
FOR YOUR APPEARANCE.
>>
MS. DEMINGS.
>> DO YOU HAVE ANY KNOWLEDGE OF
A POSSIBLE MEETING ON OR AROUND
MAY 7 INVOLVING THEN PRESIDENT
ELECTS ZELENSKY AND SEVERAL OF
HIS AIDES  TO DISCUSS HOW TO
HANDLE PRESSURE FROM PRESIDENT
TRUMP AND MR. GIULIANI ABOUT
INVESTIGATING THE BIDENS?
>> I DON'T RECALL SUCH A
MEETING.
>> YOU DON'T RECALL HEARING
ABOUT SUCH A MEETING? YOU DON'T
HAVE FIRSTHAND KNOWLEDGE?
>>
I DON'T HAVE RECORDS OR
SCHEDULES. RIGHT NOW I DON'T
RECALL ANYTHING ABOUT SUCH
MEETING. -- SUCH A MEETING. WAS
THIS AMONG THE UKRAINIANS?
>> A MEETING AMONG THE
UKRAINIANS, WITH PRESIDENT
ELECTS ZELENSKY,
EARLY ON IN HIS PRESIDENCY WAS
SEVERAL AIDS TO DISCUSS HOW TO
HANDLE PRESSURE FROM PRESIDENT
TRUMP AND MR. GIULIANI ABOUT
INVESTIGATING THE BIDENS.
>> I DON'T RECALL THAT.
>> I BELIEVE IT WAS THE MAY 23
MEETING, YOU TALKED ABOUT HOW
THE PRESIDENT CATEGORIZED
UKRAINE, WHAT HE THOUGHT ABOUT
UKRAINE, THAT MEETING WAS ON MAY
23, DID YOU EVER HEAR PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY
RELATE ANY CONCERNS ABOUT YOU,
ABOUT HOW HE FELT, ABOUT HOW THE
UNITED STATES VIEWED HIM,
WHETHER HE WAS BEING TAKEN
SERIOUSLY OR ANY CONCERNS ABOUT
BEING USED AS A TOOL FOR LEGAL
REASONS?
>> I SAW THAT IN AN EMAIL FROM
AMBASSADOR TAYLOR. WE OBVIOUSLY
TRIED TO
RELATE TO PRESIDENT ZELENSKY THE
GLASS HALF-FULL VERSION ABOUT
HOW THE
UNITED STATES FELT ABOUT
UKRAINE, NOT THE GLASS
HALF-EMPTY VERSION, WE ARE HERE
FOR YOU, TO SUPPORT YOU, AND WE
ARE TRYING HARD TO GET YOU THE
MEETING WITH PRESIDENT TRUMP.
>>
SO AFTER HEARING IT FROM
AMBASSADOR TAYLOR, YOU TRIED TO
REASSURE PRESIDENT ZELENSKY THAT
AMERICA WAS TRULY ON THEIR SIDE?
>> WE WERE TRYING TO ASSURE HIM
THROUGHOUT HIS ENTIRE  TERM AS A
PRESIDENT.
>> AMBASSADOR, I KNOW YOU SAID
YOU DON'T QUITE REMEMBER EXACTLY
WHEN YOU CAME TO THE REALIZATION
THAT BURISMA ASHLEY MEANT
BIDENS, BUT BACK ON MAY 6  WHEN
ASKED ABOUT A NEWS REPORT ABOUT
THE ROLE OF FORMER VICE
PRESIDENT
, PRESIDENT TRUMP TOLD FOXNEWS
THAT IT WAS, I QUOTE, A MAJOR
SCANDAL, A MAJOR PROBLEM. THE
NEW YORK TIMES REPORTED THAT
RUDY GIULIANI PLANNED TO TRAVEL
TO UKRAINE,",
SHORTLY TO MEET WITH PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY TO URGE HIM TO PURSUE
THE 2016 ELECTION AND THE
INVOLVEMENT OF HUNTER BIDEN IN
BURISMA.  ARE YOU SAYING THAT
YOU DID NOT REALIZE AT THAT
TIME, ON MAY 9 OF THIS YEAR,
THAT MR. GIULIANI WANTED TO URGE
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY TO PURSUE THE
2016 ELECTION AND THE
INVOLVEMENT  OF HUNTER BIDEN IN
BURISMA?
>> I DID NOT KNOW THAT, BUT I
DO NOW.
>>
AND YOU DID NOT PAY ANY
ATTENTION OR MUCH ATTENTION AT
ALL TO ANY OF THE NUMEROUS NEWS
REPORTS OF THE PERSON YOU WERE
DIRECTED BY THE PRESIDENT TO
WORK WITH
, WHEN HE WAS ON TELEVISION,
OVER AND OVER AGAIN TALKING
ABOUT HUNTER BIDEN AND CHARISMA
--
BURISMA?
>> NO, I DID NOT.
>> IN A TEXT FROM AMBASSADOR
TAYLOR, YOU SAID SOMETHING TO
THE EFFECT THAT  ARE WE NOW
SAYING THAT IT IS TIED TO
INVESTIGATIONS, AND YOU TEXTED
BACK, CALL ME. YOU HAD A
CONVERSATION WITH PRESIDENT
TRUMP, AND PRESIDENT TRUMP SAID
SOMETHING TO THE EFFECT THAT
THERE IS NO QUID PRO QUO. DO YOU
KNOW WHAT PROMPTED HIM TO SAY
THAT? YOU ASKED HIM WHAT YOU
WANT, AND HE GOES DIRECTLY TO,
THERE IS NO QUID PRO QUO, AS
OPPOSED TO A LIST OF THINGS HE
WANTED, WHAT PROMPTED HIM TO USE
THAT TERM?
>> I HAVE NO CLUE.
>> DID YOU DISCUSS YOUR
TEXT FROM AMBASSADOR TAYLOR WITH
PRESIDENT TRUMP BEFORE HE MADE
THAT STATEMENT?
>> I DID NOT, OPENED A VERY OPEN
STATEMENT
-- QUESTION.
>> THERE OTHER CONVERSATIONS YOU
CAN RECALL BECAUSE YOU DON'T
HAVE YOUR NOTES OR YOUR
DOCUMENTS OR YOUR EMAILS, OR
OTHER INFORMATION, BUT YOU
REMEMBER THAT CALL SPECIFICALLY,
EXACTLY WHAT THE PRESIDENT SAID
TO YOU IN RESPONSE TO YOUR
QUESTION ABOUT WHAT YOU WANT,
WHY IS THAT?
>> I REMEMBER THE FIRST GIRL I
KISSED.
>> WELL, I WON'T SAY THAT.
>> I REMEMBERED THAT
CONVERSATION BECAUSE AS I SAID,
IT WAS A PRETTY INTENSE, SHORT
CONVERSATION.
>> TELL ME ABOUT THE
CONVERSATION YOU HAD AT THE
RESTAURANT THAT WAS OVERHEARD BY
MR. HOLMES, BECAUSE THAT WAS A
CONVERSATION WITH THE PRESIDENT.
TELL ME ABOUT THAT CONVERSATION
WITH THE PRESIDENT, WHAT WAS
SAID ON THE PHONE?
>>
I DON'T REMEMBER THE SPECIFICS,
I'M BEING GUIDED BY WHAT MR.
HOLMES TESTIFIED TO, I SAID I
DID NOT DISPUTE THE BASIC
SUBJECT OF THE CONVERSATION, WE
WERE TALKING PRIMARILY ABOUT A
SEPARATE ROCKY -- ASAP ROCKY
,  AND HE MIGHT'VE BROUGHT UP,
HOW DID IT GO WITH ZELENSKY, IS
HE GOING TO DO THE
INVESTIGATIONS, WHICH WE HAD
BEEN TALKING ABOUT,  ALTHOUGH I
DISPUTE MR. HOLMES AND HIS
CHARACTERIZATION OF WHAT I SAID
AFTERWARD.
>> THINK AMBASSADOR, I YIELD
BACK. -- THANK YOU AMBASSADOR, I
YIELD BACK.
>> MR. KRISNAMURTHI
.
>> THE PRESIDENT SAID I WANT
NOTHING, I DON'T WANT A QUID PRO
QUO. I PRESUME ON THE SEPTEMBER
9 CONVERSATION THE PRESIDENT DID
NOT MENTION THAT WAS THE SAME
DAY THAT WE LAUNCHED A
CONGRESSIONAL INVESTIGATION INTO
WHETHER THERE WAS A QUID PRO
QUO,
DID HE SAY THAT TO YOU?
>> I KNOW THAT TODAY, BUT WE
DIDN'T HAVE TIME TO TALK ABOUT
THAT.
>> AND I PRESUME HE ALSO DIDN'T
MENTION THE
WHISTLEBLOWER REPORT THAT
ALLEGED THERE WAS A QUID PRO QUO
THAT DAY?
>> HE DID NOT.
>> YOU CAN'T RULE OUT THE
POSSIBILITY THAT THE REASON HE
STARTED TALKING THAT WAY ON THAT
DAYS BECAUSE OF THE
CONGRESSIONAL INVESTIGATION?
>> I CAN'T RULE THAT OUT.
>> THE INAUGURATION OF PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY WAS ON MAY 20?
>> CORRECT.
>> YOU ATTENDED WITH SENATOR
JOHNSON, SECRETARY PERRY AND
LIEUTENANT COLONEL VINDMAN AND
OTHERS RIGHT?
>> CORRECT.
>> VICE PRESIDENT PENCE
WAS GOING TO ORIGINALLY ATTEND
THAT?
>> I BELIEVE SO.
>> WE LEARN FROM JENNIFER
WILLIAMS, THE PRESIDENT'S
DIRECTION, MAY 13, THAT THE VICE
PRESIDENT NOT ATTEND, SHE SAID
THAT ACCORDING TO THE VICE
PRESIDENT'S CHIEF OF STAFF, THE
PRESIDENT DETERMINED THAT THE
VICE PRESIDENT WOULD NOT GO.
DO YOU KNOW WHY THE VICE
PRESIDENT DID NOT ATTEND THE
INAUGURATION?
>> NO CLUE.
>> I WANT TO POINT TO A NEW YORK
TIMES ARTICLE LAST WEEK THAT
SAID THAT LEV PARNAS'S ATTORNEY,
YOU'VE READ ABOUT HIM?
>> WHAT I'VE READ RECENTLY.
>> RECENTLY INDICTED.
THE INCOMING GOVERNMENT,
ZELENSKY, IT HAD TO ANNOUNCE AN
INVESTIGATION INTO TRUMPS
POLITICAL RIVAL, JOE BIDEN AND
HIS SON, ORIOLES VICE PRESIDENT
MIKE PENCE WOULD NOT ATTEND THE
SWEARING IN OF THE NEW PRESIDENT
AND THE UNITED STATES WOULD
FREEZE AID. DID THE VICE
PRESIDENT NOT ATTEND POSSIBLY
BECAUSE THE INVESTIGATION HAD
NOT BEEN INITIATED YET?
>> I HAVE NO IDEA.
>> YOU CAN'T RULE IT OUT?
>> YOU HAVE NO BASIS FOR RULING
IT OUT HOWEVER, CORRECT?
>> ALL I KNOW
IS THAT THE LEADER OF THE
DELEGATION WAS SECRETARY PERRY,
WHO INVITED ME ALONG.
>> INTERESTINGLY, AMBASSADOR
SONDLAND,
SINCE YOU CAME FORWARD, OTHERS
HAVE TRIED TO DISTANCE
THEMSELVES FROM YOU. ON OCTOBER
14, RUDY GIULIANI TOLD THE
WASHINGTON POST THAT SONDLAND
QUOTE, SEEMED TO BE IN CHARGE,",
OF THE EFFORT TO GET UKRAINIAN
OFFICIALS TO PUBLICLY ANNOUNCE
INVESTIGATIONS.
OF COURSE THAT IS FALSE,
CORRECT?
>> IF I'D BEEN IN CHARGE, I
WOULD'VE ASKED PRESIDENT TRUMP
TO HAVE THE MEETING WITHOUT
PRECONDITIONS AND IT WOULD HAVE
OCCURRED A LONG TIME AGO.
>> THAT'S EXACTLY RIGHT, THE
PRESIDENT IS THE ONE WHO WANTED
THESE INVESTIGATIONS, THAT WE'VE
LEARNED LATER ON IN READING THE
JULY 25 CALLED
TRANSCRIPT, ISN'T THAT RIGHT?
>> THE PRESIDENT, AS CONVEYED
THROUGH MR. GIULIANI, WANTED THE
INVESTIGATIONS.
>> TIM MORRISON SAID YESTERDAY,
AND IN THE DEPOSITION,
DISPARAGED YOU, TOO. HE CALLED
YOU THE GORDON PROBLEM.
>> THAT'S WHAT MY WIFE CALLS ME.
>> [ LAUGHTER ]
>> MAYBE THEY ARE TALKING. [
LAUGHTER ]
>>
SHOULD I BE WORRIED?
>> MAY BE. [ LAUGHTER ] ON
OCTOBER 8, OF THIS YEAR,
THE PRESIDENT TWEETED THAT YOU
ARE A REALLY GOOD MAN AND A
GREAT AMERICAN. AND OF COURSE ON
NOVEMBER 8, ONE MONTH LATER, HE
SAID, I HARDLY KNOW THE
GENTLEMAN.
>> EASY COME, EASY GO. [
LAUGHTER ]
>> WHAT I'M CONCERNED ABOUT, YOU
ARE PART OF THE THREE AMIGOS,
BUT WHAT I'M CONCERNED ABOUT,
AMBASSADOR SONDLAND, IS THAT THE
PRESIDENT AND THE GOOD FOLKS
OVER HERE, MY REPUBLICAN
COLLEAGUES, ARE NOW
TESTING YOU AS THE ONE AMIGO,
THE ONE THAT THEY ARE GOING TO
THROW UNDER THE BUS. THE TRUTH
IS
, AS YOU SAID IN THE OPENING
STATEMENT, THE SUGGESTION THAT
YOU WERE ENGAGED IN SOME ROGUE
DIPLOMACY OR IRREGULAR CHANNEL
OF DIPLOMACY
IS QUOTE UNQUOTE, ABSOLUTELY
FALSE, ISN'T THAT RIGHT?
>> THAT IS CORRECT.
>> THE PRESUMPTION THAT MILITARY
AID WAS CONDITIONED ON
INVESTIGATIONS WAS BASED ON MICK
MULVANEY'S STATEMENT THAT WAS ON
THE VIDEO, ISN'T THAT RIGHT?
>> I DIDN'T HAVE THE BENEFIT
AT THAT TIME OF HIS STATEMENT.
>> BUT YOU WOULD STAND BY THE
PRESUMPTION THAT YOU HAD BASED
ON WHAT YOU KNOW NOW CORRECT?
>> YES.
>> AND WHEN YOU TOLD ANDRE
YERMACH
, BEING CONDITIONED ON
INVESTIGATIONS, YOU TOLD
MORRISON WHAT YOU TOLD HIM, AND
MORRISON DID NOT TRY TO DISPUTE
YOUR
PRESUMPTION, CORRECT?
>> I DON'T RECALL HIM DISPUTING
IT, I THINK I WENT RIGHT OVER TO
HIM AND REPEATED THE
CONVERSATION.
>> WHEN YOU TOLD VICE PRESIDENT
PENCE YOUR CONCERNS, HE DID NOT
DISPUTED AS WELL?
>> HE DIDN'T RESPOND, HE JUST
LISTENED.
>> AND SECRETARY MIKE POMPEO?
>> I DON'T RECALL.
>> THANK YOU, THAT CONCLUDES THE
MEMBER QUESTIONING, MR. NUNES
, DO YOU HAVE CLOSING REMARKS?
>> I KNOW YOU NEED TO GET ON THE
PLANE, THANK YOU FOR YOUR
INDULGENCE. ONCE AGAIN THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE HAVE SEEN
ANOTHER FAILURE OF THEIR
PREPOSTEROUS CONSPIRACY THEORY,
THAT IS IF IT DOESN'T CHANGE
BETWEEN NOW AND OUR NEXT
HEARING, WHICH IS IN A FEW
HOURS, OR IN ANOTHER HOUR OR SO,
AND IT KEEPS CHANGING EVERY DAY,
THE CLAIM, AMBASSADOR, THAT YOU
HAD A IRREGULAR CHANNEL, A DRUG
DEAL, NOW SUPPOSEDLY YOU ARE ONE
AMIGO, ON THE SIDE OF THE AISLE.
>> LOST MY AMIGOS.
>> NOT FROM US. NO BRIBES GIVEN
TO
THE UKRAINIAN PEOPLE, THAT YOU
GAVE, OR TO THE UKRAINIAN
PRESIDENT, YOUR CODE CONSPIRATOR
--
CO-CONSPIRATOR, KURT VOLKER, I
FIND IT TROUBLING HOW THE
DEMOCRATS AND THEIR
COLLABORATORS IN THE PRESS HAVE
BEEN ABLE TO VILIFY AMBASSADOR
VOLKER, YOU ARE SUPPOSED TO WORK
ON THESE MATTERS IN UKRAINE, AND
LIKE YOU, A
IRREGULAR CHANNEL, AND NO AMOUNT
OF STORYTELLING BY THE LEFT AND
THE MEMBERS ON THE DAIS WILL
CHANGE THAT. IT WAS THE
IRREGULAR CHANNEL.
FAR FROM COMPELLING, CONCLUSIVE,
ZERO EVIDENCE OF ANY OF THE
CRIMES THAT HAVE BEEN ALLEGED.
AND IN FACT, AMBASSADOR SONDLAND
PRESUMED THAT THE TEMPORARY
POSITIVE MILITARY AID WAS
CONDITIONED ON UKRAINE'S
CARRYING OUT OF INVESTIGATIONS
THAT THE DEMOCRATS ARE DESPERATE
TO PORTRAY AS NEFARIOUS.
THE DEMOCRATS HAVE, AS IS THEIR
CUSTOM, SEIZED ON A PRESUMPTION
IMPROVE THEY CAN USE IT AGAINST
THE PRESIDENT. HOWEVER,
AMBASSADOR SONDLAND TESTIFIED IN
HIS DEPOSITION THAT WHEN HE
ASKED PRESIDENT TRUMP WHAT DO
YOU WANT FROM UKRAINE, PRESIDENT
TRUMP REPLIED, I WANT NOTHING,
THERE IS NO QUID PRO QUO.
LET ME REPEAT, PRESIDENT TRUMP
SAID I WANT NOTHING, THERE IS NO
QUID PRO QUO. THIS COMES ON THE
HEELS OF THE TESTIMONY BY
AMBASSADOR VOLKER THAT HE SAW NO
EVIDENCE OF BRIBERY, EXTORTION,
QUID PRO QUO OR TREASONOUS
ACTIONS, WE DIDN'T GET TO ASK
HIM ABOUT OBSTRUCTION OF JUSTICE
BECAUSE WE DIDN'T KNOW THAT WAS
ON THE TABLE. THE PRESIDENT'S
CALL, THEY WANT THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE TO BELIEVE IS ONE
DEMOCRAT ON THE COMMITTEE PUT
IT, THAT HEARSAY
IS NOT A REPLACEMENT FOR DIRECT
EVIDENCE, AND MR. RATCLIFF LAID
OUT THE DIRECT EVIDENCE THAT WE
HAVE FROM YOUR TESTIMONY TODAY.
NOTHING WE HAVE HEARD
ESTABLISHES A CLAIM THAT THE
PRESIDENT ACTED IMPROPERLY IN
HIS DEALINGS WITH UKRAINE, AND
CERTAINLY NOTHING HAS BEEN
PRESENTED TO SUPPORT ANYTHING
NEAR IMPEACHMENT. IN THE
MEANTIME MR. CHAIR, WE CONTINUE
TO HAVE NO ANSWERS TO THE
QUESTIONS THAT ONLY YOU KNOW.
STARTING WITH WHO IS THE
WHISTLEBLOWER WHO GAVE BIRTH TO
THIS HOAX, WHAT WAS THE NATURE
OF HIS COORDINATION WITH THE
DEMOCRATS ON THIS COMMITTEE.
SECOND, WHAT IS THE FULL EXTENT
OF UKRAINE'S ELECTION MEDDLING
AGAINST THE TRUMP CAMPAIGN IN
2016, AND FINALLY WHY DID
BURISMA  HIGHER HUNTER BIDEN,
WHAT DID HE DO FOR THEM, THAT
HIS POSITION IMPACT ANY U.S.
GOVERNMENT ACTIONS UNDER THE
OBAMA ADMINISTRATION? ANOTHER
HEARING IN THE BOOKS, AND NO
ANSWERS TO THREE BASIC MATERIAL
ACTUAL QUESTIONS THAT WE NEED
ANSWERS TO. I YIELD BACK I THINK
YOU AMBASSADOR.
>> THANK YOU.
>> I THINK THE -- THANK THE
MEMBER FOR'S REMARKS. THIS IS A
SEMINAL MOMENT IN THE
INVESTIGATION, THE EVIDENCE YOU
HAVE BROUGHT FORWARD AS DEEPLY
SIGNIFICANT AND TROUBLING. IT
HAS BEEN A LONG HEARING,
AND I KNOW AMERICANS WATCHING
THROUGHOUT THE COUNTRY MAY NOT
HAVE HAD THE OPPORTUNITY TO
WATCH ALL OF IT, SO I'M GOING TO
GO THROUGH A FEW HIGHLIGHTS, I
WILL TRY TO PARAPHRASE WHAT YOU
SAID, I'M GOING TO REFER TO YOUR
OPENING STATEMENT.
>>> WE UNDERSTOOD IF WE REFUSED
TO WORK WITH MR. GIULIANI WE
WOULD MISS A CHANCE TO WORK WITH
UKRAINE, SO WE FOLLOWED THE
PRESIDENT'S ORDERS. MR.
GIULIANI'S REQUESTS WORRY QUID
PRO QUO FOR ARRANGING A WHITE
HOUSE VISIT FOR PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY.
MR. GIULIANI DEMANDED THAT
UKRAINE MAKE A PUBLIC STATEMENT
ANNOUNCING INVESTIGATIONS OF THE
2016 ELECTION, DNC SERVER AND
BURISMA.  MR. GIULIANI WAS
EXPRESSING THE DESIRES OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AND WE KNEW THAT THESE
INVESTIGATIONS WERE IMPORTANT TO
THE PRESIDENT.
>>> LATER YOU TESTIFIED, I TRIED
DILIGENTLY TO ASK WHY THE AIDE
WAS SUSPENDED BUT I NEVER
RECEIVED A CLEAR ANSWER. IN THE
ABSENCE OF ANY CREDIBLE
EXPLANATION FOR THE SUSPENSION
OF AID, I LATER CAME TO BELIEVE
THAT THE RESUMPTION OF SECURITY
AID WOULD NOT OCCUR UNTIL THERE
WAS A PUBLIC STATEMENT FROM
UKRAINE COMMITTING TO THE
INVESTIGATIONS OF THE 2016
ELECTION AND BURISMA,  AS MR.
GIULIANI HAD DEMANDED. I SHARED
CONCERNS OF THE POTENTIAL QUID
PRO QUO REGARDING THE SECURITY
AID WITH RON JOHNSON, AND ALSO
WITH THE UKRAINIANS. SO MUCH FOR
THE UKRAINIANS DIDN'T KNOW
. YOU CAN HAVE A QUID PRO QUO
UNLESS THE UKRAINIANS KNOW, AND
YOU HAVE TESTIFIED TODAY
AMBASSADOR, THAT THE UKRAINIANS
KNEW. YOU FURTHER TESTIFIED
,
MR. GIULIANI EMPHASIZED THAT THE
PRESIDENT WANTED A PUBLIC
STATEMENT FROM PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY COMMITTING UKRAINE TO
LOOK INTO CORRUPTION ISSUES, MR.
GIULIANI SPECIFICALLY MENTIONED
THE 2016 ELECTION, INCLUDING THE
DNC SERVER AND BURISMA AS TOPICS
OF IMPORTANCE TO THE PRESIDENT.
>>> IN REFERENCE TO THE JULY 10
MEETING THAT YOU
ATTENDED, AND THE UKRAINIAN
DELEGATION, YOU SAID I RECALL
MENTIONING THE PREREQUISITE OF
INVESTIGATIONS BEFORE ANY WHITE
HOUSE CALL OR MEETING.
YOU FURTHER TESTIFIED AGAIN, MR.
GIULIANI'S DEMAND THAT
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY MAKE A PUBLIC
STATEMENT ABOUT INVESTIGATIONS,
AND KNEW THAT THE TOPIC OF
INVESTIGATIONS WAS IMPORTANT TO
PRESIDENT TRUMP . YOU TESTIFIED
LATER, I KNOW THAT MEMBERS OF
THIS COMMITTEE HAVE FREQUENTLY
FRAMED THESE COMPLICATED ISSUES
IN THE FORM OF A SIMPLE
QUESTION,
WAS THERE A QUID PRO QUO, AND AS
I TESTIFIED PREVIOUSLY WITH
REGARD TO THE REQUESTED WHITE
HOUSE CALL, AND WHITE HOUSE
MEETING, THE ANSWER IS YES.
>>> WE ALL UNDERSTOOD THESE
PREREQUISITES FOR THE WHITE
HOUSE CALL AND MEETING REFLECTED
PRESIDENT TRUMP'S DESIRES, AND
REQUIREMENTS.
LATER ON THE SUBJECT OF SECURITY
AID, IN THE ABSENCE OF SECURITY
AID FOR THE HOLD, I FOUND THAT
IT WAS JEOPARDIZED IN
PREPARATION FOR THE SEPTEMBER 1
MEETING
IN WARSAW, I ASKED SECRETARY
MIKE POMPEO WHETHER A
FACE-TO-FACE CONVERSATION
BETWEEN TRUMP AND ZELENSKY COULD
HELP  BREAK THE LOGJAM.
AND THIS IS FROM AN EMAIL THAT
THE STATE DEPARTMENT REFUSES TO
PROVIDE TO US BUT YOU HAVE
PROVIDED, IT READS, SHOULD WE
BLOCK TIME IN WARSAW FOR A SHORT
PULL ASIDE FOR POTUS TO MEET
ZELENSKY, I WOULD ASK ZELENSKY
TO LOOK THEM IN THE EYE, THE
PRESIDENT, AND TOLD HIM THAT
ONCE UKRAINE'S NEW JUSTICE FOLKS
ARE IN PLACE,  THAT HE SHOULD BE
ABLE TO MOVE FORWARD PUBLICLY
WITH CONFIDENCE ON THOSE ISSUES
OF IMPORTANCE TO POTUS
, AND TO THE UNITED STATES, AND
HOPEFULLY THAT WILL BREAK THE
LOGJAM. AND SECRETARY MIKE
POMPEO'S REPLY, YES. NOT WHAT
ISSUES? NOT WHAT ARE YOU TALKING
ABOUT AMBASSADOR SONDLAND?
BECAUSE SECRETARY MIKE POMPEO
WAS ON THE JULY 25 PHONE CALL,
HE KNEW WHAT ISSUES WERE IN
HORTON TO POTUS, THERE WERE TWO
OF THEM,
INVESTIGATION INTO 2016 AND THE
DNC SERVER, AND INVESTIGATIONS
INTO THE BIDEN'S.
BY THE END OF AUGUST, YOU
TESTIFIED BY POLICE -- BELIEF
WAS THAT IF THEY HAD CORRUPTION
-- INVESTIGATION INTO CORRUPTION
SPECIFICALLY WITH BURISMA AND
THE SERVER, THE HOLD WOULD BE
LIFTED ON THE AID .
I MENTIONED TO VICE PRESIDENT
PENCE BEFORE THE MEETINGS WITH
UKRAINIANS THAT I HAD CONCERNS
THAT THE DELAY IN AID HAD BECOME
TIED TO THE ISSUE OF
INVESTIGATIONS. AND AS YOU
TESTIFIED, HE GAVE YOU NO
RESPONSE, NOT WHAT ARE YOU
TALKING ABOUT, AMBASSADOR, HOW
COULD THAT BE, HOW DO WE CLEAR
THIS UP, HE MERELY NODDED HIS
HEAD OR TOOK IT IN. AND OF
COURSE THE RECORD OF THAT 25th
CALL BETWEEN PRESIDENT TRUMP AND
ZELENSKY  WAS IN THE VICE
PRESIDENTS READING BOOK EARLIER.
>>> THEN YOU TESTIFIED, MY GOAL
AT THE TIME WAS TO DO WHAT WAS
NECESSARY TO GET THE AID
RELEASED, TO BREAK THE LOGJAM. I
BELIEVE THAT THE PUBLIC
STATEMENT THAT WE HAVE BEEN
THAT'S WE HAD BEEN DISCUSSING
FOR WEEKS WAS ESSENTIAL TO
MEETING THAT GOAL.
>>>
MY COLLEAGUES SEEM TO BELIEVE,
AND LET ME ADD TO THIS CALL,
THAT YOU HAVE CONFIRMED TODAY,
IN ADDITION TO CLAIMING THERE
WAS NO QUID PRO QUO, THE
PRESIDENT WAS ADAMANT THAT
PRESIDENT ZELENSKY HAD TO QUOTE,
CLEAR THINGS UP AND DO IT IN
PUBLIC . THAT IS WHAT YOU HAVE
CONFIRMED, THAT IS WHAT YOU ALSO
TOLD AMBASSADOR TAYLOR. SO HE
WOULD DENY THERE WAS A QUID PRO
QUO, BUT ADAMANT THAT ZELENSKY
HAD TO CLEAR IT UP AND DO IT IN
PUBLIC.
>>> I HAVE SAID A LOT OF THINGS
ABOUT PRESIDENT TRUMP OVER THE
YEARS, I HAVE STRONG FEELINGS
ABOUT PRESIDENT TRUMP WHICH ARE
NEITHER HERE NOR THERE, I WILL
SEE THIS ON THE PRESIDENT'S
BEHALF, I DO NOT BELIEVE THAT
THE PRESIDENT WOULD ALLOW
HIMSELF TO BE LED BY THE NOSE,
RUDY GIULIANI, AMBASSADOR
SONDLAND OR ANYBODY ELSE.
I THINK THE PRESIDENT WAS THE
ONE WHO DECIDED WHETHER A
MEETING WOULD HAPPEN, WHETHER
AID WOULD BE LIFTED, NOT ANYONE
WHO WORKED FOR HIM. AND SO THE
ANSWER TO THE QUESTION, WHO WAS
REFUSING THE MEETING WITH
ZELENSKY,  THAT YOU BELIEVE
SHOULD TAKE PLACE, AMBASSADOR
VOLCKER DID, EVERYBODY DID, THE
ONLY QUESTION WAS WHEN, WHO WAS
THE ONE STANDING IN THE WAY? THE
ONE REFUSING TO TAKE THE
MEETING? ONLY ONE ANSWER THAT
QUESTION, AND IT IS DONALD J
TRUMP, 45th PRESIDENT OF THE
UNITED STATES.
WHO WAS HOLDING UP THE MILITARY
ASSISTANCE? WAS IT YOU? NO IT
WASN'T, WAS IT AMBASSADOR
VOLCKER? NO. AMBASSADOR TAYLOR?
NO. WAS IT KENT? NO. SECRETARY
OF STATE
MIKE POMPEO? NO. WHO HAD THE
DECISION TO RELEASE THE AID, ONE
PERSON, DONALD J TRUMP,
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.
>>> MY COLLEAGUES SEEM TO THINK
THAT UNLESS THE PRESIDENT SAYS
THE
MAGIC WORDS, I HEREBY BRIBE THE
UKRAINIANS, THAT THERE IS NO
EVIDENCE OF BRIBERY OR HIGH
CRIMES AND MISDEMEANORS. BUT
LET'S LOOK AT
THE BEST EVIDENCE OF WHAT IS IN
THE PRESIDENT'S HEAD, WHAT IS
HIS INTENT, THE REASON BEHIND
THE HOLD ON THE MEETING IN THE
AID? LET'S LOOK AT WHAT THE
PRESIDENT HAS TO SAY, WHAT IS
UNDISPUTED ABOUT WHAT THE
PRESIDENT HAS TO SAY, AND YOU
KNOW HOW WE KNOW? NOT BECAUSE OF
WHAT YOU HAVE REPRESENTED OR
OTHERS, BUT BECAUSE WE HAVE A
RECORD OF HIS CONVERSATION, WITH
WHO? THE ONE WHO REALLY MATTERS.
WITH THE OTHER PRESIDENT,
ZELENSKY.  THIS IS WHAT HE SAYS.
HE SAYS RUDY VERY MUCH KNOWS
WHAT'S HAPPENING. AND HE IS A
VERY CAPABLE GUY. THIS IS AFTER
HE SAID HE WANTS A FAVOR,
AND HE GOES INTO CROWDSTRIKE, HE
SAYS RUDY VERY MUCH KNOWS WHAT'S
HAPPENING, A CAPABLE GUY, IF YOU
COULD SPEAK TO HIM, THAT WOULD
BE GREAT. THE FORMER AMBASSADOR
FOR THE UNITED STATES, THE WOMAN
WAS BAD NEWS, THE PEOPLE SHE WAS
DOING WITH IN UKRAINE WERE BAD
NEWS, I WANT TO LET YOU KNOW
THAT THE OTHER THING, THERE IS A
LOT OF TALK ABOUT BIDEN'S SON,
BUT A LOT OF PEOPLE WANT TO FIND
OUT ABOUT THAT, WHATEVER YOU
COULD DO WITH THE ATTORNEY
GENERAL, THAT WOULD BE GREAT.
BIDEN WENT AROUND BRAGGING THAT
HE STOPPED THE PROSECUTION, IF
YOU CAN LOOK INTO IT, IT SOUNDS
HORRIBLE TO ME.
>>> SO WHAT IS IN THE PRESIDENTS
MIND WHEN HE HAS PLACED THIS
OTHERWISE INEXPLICABLE HOLD ON
THE AID WHEN HE REFUSES TO TAKE
THE MEETING? WHAT IS ON HIS
MIND? BIDEN. HE MAKES IT
ABUNDANTLY CLEAR.
YOU DIDN'T MAKE THE CONNECTION
BETWEEN BURISMA AND BIDEN,  I
WOULD LET THE AMERICAN PEOPLE
JUDGE THE CREDIBILITY OF THAT
ANSWER, BUT THERE IS NO MISTAKE
ABOUT WHAT HE MEANT, DONALD
TRUMP, AND THE CALL WITH YOU ON
AN UNSECURED PHONE, ON AN
OUTDOOR TERRACE, IN UKRAINE,
WHEN HE SAID INVESTIGATION, HE
MEANT BIDEN, HE MADE THAT
ABUNDANTLY CLEAR TO THE
PRESIDENT OF UKRAINE THE DAY
BEFORE.
THE QUESTION IS NOT WHAT THE
PRESIDENT MEANT, OR WHETHER HE
WAS RESPONSIBLE FOR HOLDING UP
THE AID, HE WAS, THE QUESTION
ISN'T WHETHER EVERYBODY KNEW IT,
THEY DID, THE QUESTION IS, WHAT
ARE WE PREPARED TO DO ABOUT IT?
IS THERE ANY ACCOUNTABILITY, OR
ARE WE FORCED TO CONCLUDE THAT
THIS IS JUST NOW THE WORLD THAT
WE LIVE IN, WHEN A PRESIDENT OF
THE UNITED STATES CAN WITHHOLD
VITAL MILITARY AID FROM AN ALLY
AT WAR WITH THE RUSSIANS,
FIGHTING OUR FIGHT, TOO,
TO DEFEND OUR COUNTRY AGAINST
RUSSIAN AGGRESSION, ARE WE
PREPARED TO SAY, IN THE WORDS OF
MICK MULVANEY, GET OVER IT? OR
GET USED TO IT? WE ARE NOT
PREPARED TO SAY THAT. WE ARE NOT
PREPARED TO SAY THAT, AND I
APPRECIATE AMBASSADOR VOLCKER,
AND AMBASSADOR SONDLAND, I
APPRECIATE
THE FACT THAT YOU HAVE NOT
OPINED ON WHETHER THE PRESIDENT
SHOULD BE IMPEACHED OR NOT, OR
WHETHER THE CRIME OF BRIBERY OR
HIGH CRIMES AND MISDEMEANORS HAS
BEEN COMMITTED, THAT IS FOR US
TO DECIDE, IN CONSULTATION WITH
OUR CONSTITUENTS AND OUR
CONSCIENCE. IT IS FOR US TO
DECIDE. AND MUCH IS MY
COLLEAGUES HAVE SAID OTHERWISE,
THIS IS NOT AN EASY DECISION FOR
ANY OF US. AND MUCH IS MY
COLLEAGUES MIGHT SAY OTHERWISE,
THIS IS NOT SOMETHING WE RELISH.
FOR OVER A YEAR, I RESISTED THIS
WHOLE IDEA OF GOING DOWN THE
ROAD TO IMPEACHMENT. BUT IT WAS
MADE NECESSARY, AND NOT BY THE
WHISTLEBLOWER, BUT BY THE
ACTIONS OF THE PRESIDENT.
I AM CONTINUALLY STRUCK HOW MY
COLLEAGUES WOULD SUGGEST THAT
BECAUSE THE PRESIDENT GOT
CAUGHT, WE SHOULD IGNORE THE
FACT THAT HE WAS CONDITIONING
OFFICIAL ACTS IN ORDER TO GET
POLITICAL FAVORS
, IN ORDER TO GET AN
INVESTIGATION INTO HIS RIVAL.
GETTING CAUGHT IS NO DEFENSE.
NOT TO A VIOLATION OF THE
CONSTITUTION, OR A VIOLATION OF
HIS OATH OF OFFICE, AND IT
CERTAINLY DOESN'T GIVE US A
REASON TO IGNORE OUR OWN OATH OF
OFFICE. WE ARE ADJOURNED.
>> [ APPLAUSE ]
[ APPLAUSE ]
>>> A COUPLE KEY TAKEAWAYS FROM
TODAY, THE FIRST ONE IS THE
STATEMENT THAT THE PRESIDENT
GAVE TO AMBASSADOR SONDLAND,
WHEN HE ASKED HIM WHAT DOES HE
WANT FROM UKRAINE, THE PRESIDENT
WAS AS CLEAR AS HE CAN BE, I
WANT NOTHING, DO SOMETHING THAT
HE CAMPAIGNED ON AND WHAT HE RAN
ON. AS CLEAR AS CAN BE, DIRECT
EVIDENCE FROM THE CENTRAL
FIGURE,
THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES STATING IT AS CLEARLY AND
PLAINLY AS HE POSSIBLY COULD.
>>> SECOND, IT'S IMPORTANT TO
UNDERSTAND, THERE WERE ONLY 14
DAYS THAT THE UKRAINIANS KNEW
THE AID WAS HELD UP,
ON AUGUST 29 KIA POLITICAL
ARTICLE, IN THE 14 DAY
TIMEFRAME, TO 11 SEPTEMBER,
THREE KEY INTERACTIONS WITH
GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS AND THE
PRESIDENT OF UKRAINE, THE LAST
ONE WAS BIPARTISAN MEETING FOR
PEOPLE FROM THE LEGISLATION
, LEGISLATIVE BRANCH, IF EVER
THERE WAS A TIME WHEN HE
WOULD'VE BROUGHT UP THE IDEA
THAT AID WAS SOMEHOW LINKED TO
HIM ANNOUNCING AN INVESTIGATION,
THAT WOULD HAVE BEEN THE TIME,
SENATOR MURPHY BROUGHT UP
HIMSELF, AND STILL PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY NEVER SAID IN ANY WAY
THAT THERE WAS AID , THAT AN
INVESTIGATION WAS LINKED
TOGETHER. THOSE ARE THE KEY
TAKEAWAYS, EVERYTHING ELSE
IS AMBASSADOR SONDLAND SURMISING
WHAT SOMEBODY IS THINKING AND
WHAT THEY'RE UP TO, ANYTHING THE
DEMOCRATS REGISTER UP, THE FACTS
HAVE BEEN ON THE PRESIDENT SIDE,
THEY HAVE NOT CHANGED, THE
TRANSCRIPT, NO LINKAGE, WE GET
THE TWO GUYS ON THE CALL, NO
PRESSURE, NO
PUSHING OR LINKAGE, AND THE MOST
IMPORTANT THING, AS WAS POINTED
OUT TODAY, INCLUDING
REPRESENTATIVE STEFANIK
, NO ANNOUNCEMENT TO GET THE
MEETING, OR THE AID RELEASED,
THOSE ARE THE FACTS.
>> AS EVERY DAY GOES BY, ADAM
SCHIFF AND THE DEMOCRATS WISHFUL
THINKING FOR IMPEACHMENT
CRUMBLES, THEY HAVE YET TO POINT
TO A SINGLE SHRED OF EVIDENCE OF
HIGH CRIMES OF -- AND
MISDEMEANORS, BRIBERY,
AMBASSADOR SONDLAND TESTIFIED
THAT THERE WAS NO PRINT -- HE
SAID THERE WAS NO QUID PRO QUO,
I WANT HIM TO DO WHAT HE RAN ON,
ANTICORRUPTION. THE FACTS REMAIN
THE SAME,
UKRAINE RECEIVES THE AID, NO
INVESTIGATION BEFORE THE
MEETING, BEFORE THE AID RELEASE,
AND BEFORE
OR AFTER THE CALL, THE FACTS
REMAIN THE SAME THROUGHOUT THE
PROCESS, DESPITE ADAM SCHIFF
CONTINUING POLITICAL WISHFUL
THINKING.
>>
MR. JORDAN, IS IT A COINCIDENCE
THAT AID WAS RELEASED AFTER
CONGRESS BEGAN AN INVESTIGATION,
AFTER THE WHITE HOUSE LEARNED
ABOUT THE WHISTLEBLOWER
COMPLAINT, JUST A COINCIDENCE
?
>> THEY GOT RELEASED BECAUSE SO
MANY SENIOR GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS
MET WITH ZELENSKY AND SAID THIS
NEW GUY , THIS NEW KID IN TOWN
IS LEGITIMATE, A REAL REFORMER.
AND REMEMBER WHAT HAPPENED ON
SEPTEMBER 5, THE SAME DAY THE
CENTERS ARE MEETING WITH THEM,
WHAT HAPPENS IN THEIR
PARLIAMENT, THEY START THE
ANTICORRUPTION COURT, THEY GOT
RID OF SOVEREIGN IMMUNITY FOR
MEMBERS OF PARLIAMENT, ALL OF
THOSE THINGS ARE HAPPENING. AND
REMEMBER, SENATOR JOHNSON CAME
BACK, AND THEY TALKED TO THE
PRESIDENT AND SAID WE REALLY
WANT THE AID RELEASED. AND THE
PRESIDENT DOESN'T,
IT HAPPENED BECAUSE WE ALL
BELIEVED THAT PRESIDENT --
ZELENSKY WAS LEGITIMATE.
>>
I AM CONCERNED THAT IT WAS
359 TIMES IN THE AMBASSADOR'S
DEPOSITION, I DON'T RECALL, I
CONCERNED THAT I'M CONCERNED
ABOUT THE MOST EXCULPATORY PIECE
OF EVIDENCE,
THE STATEMENT FROM THE
PRESIDENT, HE LIFTED OUT OF HIS
OPENING STATEMENT, I'M MORE
CONCERNED ABOUT THAT.
>>
DO YOU HAVE NO CONCERN ABOUT THE
VICE PRESIDENT AND OTHER
OFFICIALS COMING IN, AND DATA
>> THAT IS THE WHITE HOUSE'S
CALL. THIS PROCESS HAS BEEN SO
UNFAIR, WHAT ADAM SCHIFF HAS
DONE, THE FACT THAT IT WAS LAST
NIGHT, IF WE WANT TO LOOK AT MR.
SANDI'S DEPOSITION AND BRING THE
MATERIAL FORWARD, AT 10 PM, OUR
LAWYER GOT NOTIFIED,
WE WOULD'VE LIKED TO HAVE MR.
SANDI'S DEPOSITION AVAILABLE TO
USE IN THE PROCEEDING, ONE OF
THE MANY UNFAIR THINGS, YOU KNOW
IT HAS BEEN UNFAIR, YOU KNOW
THAT.
>>
YOUR WITNESSES?
>> EYEWITNESSES WERE AMBASSADOR
VOLCKER, AND MORRISON, THAT WAS
A GOOD DAY, MR. VOELKER, THE
DEFINITIVE NARRATIVE, YOU SAW
HOW GOOD HE DID. REMEMBER THEY
ARE ALL ADAM SCHIFF'S WITNESSES,
WE WOULD LIKE THREE TO COME IN
ON OUR LIST, MORRISON, HALE AND
VOELKER.
>> AND WHAT WITNESS THEY WON'T
CALL HIS HUNTER BIDEN, EVERY
SINGLE WITNESS, IS THERE
POTENTIAL APPEARANCE OF A
CONFLICT OF INTEREST, EVERY
SINGLE WITNESS HAS SAID YES,
INCLUDING AMBASSADOR SONDLAND,
HUNTER BIDEN AND THE
WHISTLEBLOWER FOR CLOSED-DOOR
DEPOSITION. AND ADAM SCHIFF
WON'T CALL THOSE WITNESSES.
>> EVERY WITNESS HAS RAISED
CONCERN ABOUT RUDY GIULIANI,
DON'T YOU HAVE CONCERNS THAT
RUDY GIULIANI
IS PUSHING SOMETHING COUNTER TO
THE NATIONAL INTEREST?
>> THIS WAS AN OFFICIAL CHANNEL,
THE PRESIDENT CAN CHOOSE WHO HE
WANTS, FROM THE WITNESSES WHO
ARE HERE, THEY HAVE YET TO POINT
TO A SHRED OF EVIDENCE.
>>
THAT IS NOT ACCURATE.
AS AMBASSADOR SONDLAND
TESTIFIED,
INTO THE ELECTIONS, AND
SPECIFICALLY SAYING HE DID NOT
UNDERSTAND IT WAS
BIDEN, AND THE ONE INVESTIGATION
WAS DONE UNDER THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION, THEY HAD
CONCERNS WITH HUNTER BIDEN
SITTING ON THE BOARD. AS WE KNOW
FROM AMBASSADOR YOVANOVITCH. FOR
THE SENATE CONFIRMATION HEARING,
WHEN WE TALK ABOUT
INVESTIGATIONS, THE ONE
INVESTIGATION WAS DONE
DURING THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION.
>> WHAT EXCULPATORY EVIDENCE,
THE STRONGEST EVIDENCE.
>> THE PRESIDENT'S OWN WORDS.
>> THAT IS THE STRONGEST?
>> AND THE FACT THAT PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY NEVER ANNOUNCED ANY
INVESTIGATION. HE SAID TO GET A
MEETING, A CALL, THE SECURITY
ASSISTANCE,
THE MEETING, THE CALL, SECURITY
ASSISTANCE WITHOUT AN
ANNOUNCEMENT. THAT'S IT RIGHT
THERE.
>> DO YOU THINK IT WOULD HELP TO
HAVE THEM TESTIFY TO THE PUBLIC?
>> THAT IS THEIR CALL. THANK YOU
SO MUCH.
>>> Cooper along with others
learned about the agency
meetings in the last two weeks
of July. At the first meeting on
July 18, a representative
relayed that the White House
Chief of Staff has conveyed that
the president has concerns about
Ukraine and the Ukraine security
assistance and that hold had
been ordered by the president.
No explanation was provided.
>> All of the agencies ADVOCATED
FOR THE LIFTING OF THE HOLDER.
AND STILL, NO GOOD EXPLANATION
OF THE HOLD WAS PROVIDED. WHILE
THE SUSPENSION HAD NOT BEEN MADE
PUBLIC, WORD WAS GETTING OUT.
THE SPECIAL ADVISOR FOR THE
UKRAINE ASSOCIATION TESTIFIED
BEFORE THIS COMMITTEE AT A
DEPOSITION RECEIVED TWO SEPARATE
CALLS IN JULY OR AUGUST FROM
OFFICIALS AT THE UKRAINIAN
EMBASSY WHO APPROACHED ME
QUIETLY AND IN CONFIDENCE TO ASK
ME ABOUT AND OMB HOLD FOR
UKRAINIAN ASSISTANCE. CROFT WAS
SURPRISED THAT THE EFFECTIVENESS
OF MY UKRAINIAN COUNTERPART TO
DIPLOMATIC CRATE TRASH -- TRADE
CRAFT. UKRAINIANS WANTED ANSWERS
, BUT CROFT DID NOT HAVE A GOOD
RESPONSE. THEN IN LATE AUGUST,
COOPER MET WITH WHOM SHE HAD MET
WITH MANY TIMES IN THE PAST.
DURING THAT MEETING, THEY WERE
DISCUSSING THE HOLD ON SECURITY.
HE SAID HE WOULD COMMIT TO THE
PROSECUTION AND COOPER
UNDERSTOOD THAT IF HIS EFFORT
WAS SUCCESSFUL, THE HOLD MIGHT
BE LIFTED. UNBEKNOWNST TO
COOPER, NOTHING WAS FORTHCOMING.
WITH THAT, I NOW RECOGNIZE THE
RANKING MEMBER.
>> THANK YOU.
>> AS WE REPUBLICANS HAVE ARGUED
AT THESE HEARINGS,
THE AMERICAN PEOPLE ARE GETTING
A SKEWED IMPRESSION OF THESE
EVENTS. THAT IS BECAUSE THE
DEMOCRATS ASSUME FULL AUTHORITY
TO CALL WITNESSES AND PROMPTLY
REJECTED ANY NEW WITNESSES
REPUBLICANS REQUESTED. I WOULD
LIKE TO TAKE A MOMENT TO DISCUSS
A FEW OF THE PEOPLE WHOSE
TESTIMONY HAS BEEN DEEMED
UNACCEPTABLE FOR THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE TO HEAR. THE
WHISTLEBLOWER, THE WHISTLEBLOWER
IS THE KEY FIGURE WHO STARTED
THIS ENTIRE IMPEACHMENT
CHARADE BY SUBMITTED A COMPLAINT
THAT RELIED ON SECONDHAND AND
THIRDHAND INFORMATION AND MEDIA
REPORTS. THIS BEGAN A BIZARRE
SERIES OF EVENTS ALTHOUGH THE
COMPLAINT HAD NO INTELLIGENCE
COMPONENT WHATSOEVER, THE
INSPECTOR GENERAL ACCEPTED IT
AND EVEN CHANGE THE GUIDANCE ON
THE COMPLAINT FORMS TO ELIMINATE
THE REQUIREMENT FOR FIRST-HAND
INFORMATION. IN HIS OFFICE
BACKDATED THE FORMS, TO MAKE
THEM APPEAR AS IF THEY WERE
PUBLISHED THE MONTH BEFORE.
DEMOCRATS THEN TOOK THE
EXTREMELY RARE STEPS OF PUSHING
A WHISTLEBLOWER COMPLAINT INTO
THE PUBLIC USING IT AS THE
CENTERPIECE OF THEIR IMPEACHMENT
CRUSADE. WE LATER LEARNED THAT
THE DEMOCRATIC STAFF HAD PRIOR
COORDINATION WITH THE
WHISTLEBLOWER SO THE DEMOCRATS
THEMSELVES HAD DENIED IT ON
NATIONAL
TELEVISION. FOLLOWING THAT
REVELATION, DEMOCRATS DID A
DRAMATIC ABOUT-FACE AND REJECTED
OUR REQUEST TO HEAR FROM THEM.
>> THEN IN A HEARING YESTERDAY,
THE DEMOCRATS ACCUSED US
AND THEY DON'T EVEN KNOW WHO HE
IS. ALEXANDER ACTUALLY BROUGHT
IS A FORMER OPERATIVE FOR THE
DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE
WHO WORKED IN WASHINGTON DC IN
ORDER TO SMEAR HER THE TRUMP
CAMPAIGN -- TO SMEAR THE
CAMPAIGN. SHE MET DIRECTLY WITH
THE VIN UKRAINIAN AMBASSADOR
WHO HIMSELF WROTE AN ARTICLE
CRITICIZING TRUMP DURING THE
2016 CAMPAIGN. TO LUPUS
ACTIVITIES WERE ONE OF SEVERAL
ALL OF WHICH WERE AIMED AT THE
TRUMP CAMPAIGN ONCE YOU
UNDERSTAND
THEY WERE TRYING TO UNDERMINE
HIS CANDIDACY, YOU CAN
UNDERSTAND WHY THE PRESIDENT
WOULD WANT TO LEARN THE FULL
TRUTH ABOUT THESE OPERATIONS AND
WHY HE WOULD BE SKEPTICAL OF
UKRAINE. HUNTER BIDEN IS ANOTHER
WITNESS WHO THE
DEMOCRATS ARE SPARING FROM CROSS
EXAMINATION. THE SECURING OF AN
EXTREMELY WELL PLAYING JOB THE
RECENT, HIGHLIGHTS THE PRECISE
CORRUPTION PROBLEM IN UKRAINE
THAT CONCERNS NOT ONLY PRESIDENT
TRUMP ABOUT ALL OF THE WITNESSES
WE HAVE INTERVIEWED SO FAR. THE
DEMOCRATS HAVE DISMISSED
QUESTIONS ABOUT BIDEN'S ROLE AS
CONSPIRACY THEORIES, YET THEY
ARE TRYING TO IMPEACH PRESIDENT
TRUMP FOR HAVING EXPRESSED
CONCERNS ABOUT THE COMPANY. IF
WE COULD HEAR FROM BIDEN, WE CAN
ASK HIM HOW HE GOT HIS POSITION
AND WHAT DID HE DO TO EARN HIS
LAVISH SALARY AND WHAT LIGHT HE
COULD SHED ON CORRUPTION AT THIS
NOTORIOUS COMPANY. BIDEN WOULD
MAKE AN INCONVENIENT WITNESS FOR
THE DEMOCRATS, SO THEY HAVE
BLOCKED HIS TESTIMONY. AT THESE
HEARINGS, WE HAVE HEARD A LOT OF
SECONDHAND AND THIRDHAND
INFORMATION BUT IN THE END, THE
ONLY DIRECT ORDER WE HAVE HEARD
FROM THE PRESIDENT IS IS ORDER
THAT HE WANTED NOTHING FROM THE
UKRAINE.
ASIDE FROM REJECTING OUR
WITNESSES, THE DEMOCRATS HAVE
TRIED OTHER PETTY TRICKS TO
SHAPE PUBLIC OPINION. JUST THIS
MORNING, THEY CAUGHT A BREAK IN
THE HEARING THEN FOR THIS
HEARING, THEY CANCELED MULTIPLE
ROUNDS OF INITIAL QUESTIONING
THEY HAD WITH AMBASSADOR
SONDLAND AS THEY HAVE HAD WITH
ALL OF THE PREVIOUS WITNESSES.
WHEN YOU LOOK THROUGH THE SMOKE
AND MIRRORS, YOU SEE THE FACTS
OF THIS CASE ARE CLEAR PRESIDENT
TRUMP WAS SKEPTICAL OF FOREIGN
AID AND ESPECIALLY A CORRUPT
COUNTRIES LIKE UKRAINE.
EVERY HOLD ON UKRAINIAN AID WAS
LIFTED WITHOUT UKRAINE TAKING
ANY STEPS THEY WERE SUPPOSEDLY
BEING BRIBED TO DO.
>>
SO WHAT EXACTLY ARE THE
DEMOCRATS IMPEACHING THE
PRESIDENT FOR? NONE OF US HERE
REALLY KNOW. THE ACCUSATIONS
CHANGE BY THE HOUR. ONCE AGAIN,
I URGE YOU TO BRING THIS TO A
CLOSE AND MOVE ON AND MOVE ON TO
THE WORK OF THE INTELLIGENCE
COMMITTEE.
>> TODAY, WE ARE JOINED BY
AMBASSADOR DAVID HALE AND MRS.
LAURA COOPER. DAVID HALE SERVES
AS THE SECRETARY OF STATE FOR
POLITICAL AFFAIRS WITH THE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE, A POSITION
HE HAS HELD SINCE AUGUST 30,
2018. HE JOINED THE PRISON
SERVICE IN 1984 AND HOLD THE
RANK OF KHMER -- CAREER
AMBASSADOR TO LEBANON AS A
SPECIAL ENVOY FOR THE LEBANON
PIECE. HE SERVED AS DEPUTY
ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF STATE AND
EXECUTIVE ASSISTANT TO THE
SECRETARY OF STATE ALBRIGHT.
COOPER IS THE SECRETARY OF
DEFENSE FOR RUSSIA AT THE
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE. SHE IS A
CAREER MEMBER OF THE SENIOR
EXECUTIVE SERVICE. MS. COOPER
PREVIOUSLY SERVED AS A PRINCIPAL
DIRECTOR IN THE OFFICE OF THE
ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF DEFENSE
FOR HOMELAND DEFENSE AND GLOBAL
SECURITY AFFAIRS. PRIOR TO
JOINING THE DEPARTMENT
OF DEFENSE IN 2001, MS. COOPER
WAS A POLICY PLANNER IN THE
OFFICE OF COUNTERTERRORISM. TWO
FINAL POINTS BEFORE OUR
WITNESSES ARE SWORN. FIRST, THE
WITNESS DEPOSITIONS WERE
UNCLASSIFIED IN NATURE
AND ALL OPEN HEARINGS WILL BE
HELD AT THE UNCLASSIFIED LEVEL.
ANY INFORMATION THEY MAY TOUCH
WILL BE ADJUSTED SEPARATELY.
SECOND, CONGRESS WILL NOT
TOLERATE ANY REPRISAL, THREAT OF
REPRISAL, OR ATTEMPT TO
RETALIATE AGAINST ANY U.S.
OFFICIAL INCLUDING YOU OR ANY OF
YOUR COLLEAGUES. IF YOU WOULD
BOTH PLEASE RISE AND RAISE YOUR
RIGHT HAND. I WILL BEGIN BY
SWEARING YOU IN.
>> DO YOU SWEAR OR AFFIRM THAT
THE TESTIMONY YOU ARE ABOUT TO
GIVE IS THE TRUTH, THE WHOLE
TRUTH, AND NOTHING BUT THE TRUTH
, TO HELP YOU GOD. LET THE
RECORD SHOW THE WITNESSES
ANSWERED IN THE AFFIRMATIVE.
THANK YOU, AND PLEASE BE SEATED.
THE MICROPHONE IS SENSITIVE, SO
PLEASE SPEAK DIRECTLY INTO IT.
YOUR WRITTEN STATEMENTS WILL BE
MADE A PART OF THE RECORD. WITH
THAT, AMBASSADOR HALE,
IF YOU HAVE ANY OPENING
STATEMENTS, YOU ARE FREE TO GIVE
THAT.
>> MR. CHAIRMAN, I DON'T HAVE A
PREPARED OPENING STATEMENT, BUT
I WOULD LIKE TO JUST COMMENT OF
COURSE. AS YOU SAID, I HAVE BEEN
UNDER SECRETARY SINCE
AUGUST 2018 AND AMBASSADOR THREE
TIMES SERVING BOTH REPUBLICAN
AND DEMOCRATIC ADMINISTRATIONS
PROUDLY. I AM HERE IN RESPONSE
TO YOUR SUBPOENA TO ANSWER
QUESTIONS OF THE COMMITTEE.
>> THANK YOU UNDERSECRETARY, MS.
COOPER?
>>
MR. CHAIRMAN, RANKING MEMBER,
MEMBERS OF THIS COMMITTEE, I
APPEARED TODAY TO PROVIDE FACTS
AND ANSWER QUESTIONS BASED ON MY
EXPERIENCE AS THE DEPUTY
ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF DEFENSE
FOR RUSSIA,
UKRAINE, AND EURASIA. I WOULD
FIRST LIKE TO DESCRIBE MY
BACKGROUND AS WELL AS MY ROLE IN
VANTAGE POINT RELEVANT TO YOUR
INQUIRY. I BRING TO MY DAILY
WORK INTO THIS PROCEEDING MY
SENSE OF DUTY TO U.S. NATIONAL
SECURITY, NOT TO ANY POLITICAL
PARTY. I HAVE PROBABLY SERVED TO
DEMOCRATIC INTO REPUBLICAN
PRESIDENTS. I ENTERED GOVERNMENT
SERVICE TO THE PRESIDENTIAL
MANAGEMENT INTERNSHIP
COMPETITION 20 THE STATE
DEPARTMENT IN 1999 TO WORK ON
COUNTERTERRORISM AND THE FORMER
SOVIET UNION. INSPIRED BY
WORKING WITH THE U.S. MILITARY
ON A DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
ROTATIONAL
ASSIGNMENT, I DECIDED TO ACCEPT
A CIVIL SERVICE POSITION IN THE
POLICY ORGANIZATION OF THE
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF
DEFENSE IN JANUARY 2001 WHERE I
HAVE REMAINED FOR THE PAST 18
YEARS. MY STRONG SENSE OF PRIDE
IN SERVING MY COUNTRY AND
DEDICATION TO MY PENTAGON
COLLEAGUES WERE CEMENTED IN THE
MOMENTS AFTER I FELT THE
PENTAGON SHAKE BENEATH ME ON
SEPTEMBER 11, 2001.
THE OFFICE WAS SCHEDULED TO MOVE
INTO THE SECTION OF THE PENTAGON
THAT WAS DESTROYED IN THE
ATTACK, BUT A CONSTRUCTION DELAY
MEANT THAT WE WERE STILL AT OUR
OLD DESKS IN THE ADJACENT
SECTION ON THAT DEVASTATING DAY.
AFTER WE HAD WIPED
THE BLACK DUST FROM OUR DESKS
AND TRY TO GET BACK TO WORK, I
FOUND MEANING BY VOLUNTEERING TO
WORK ON AFGHANISTAN POLICY AND
WOULD GIVE MY NEXT FOUR YEARS TO
THIS MISSION. I LATER HAD THE
OPPORTUNITY TO MOVE INTO THE
LEADERSHIP RANKS OF MY
ORGANIZATION AND HAVE HAD THE
PRIVILEGE TO MANAGE ISSUES
RANGING FROM DEFENSE STRATEGIC
PLANNING FOR HOMELAND DEFENSE
AND MISSION ASSURANCE. I
ACCEPTED THE POSITION OF
PRINCIPAL DIRECTOR FOR RUSSIA,
UKRAINE, AND EURASIA IN 2016 AND
WAS HONORED TO BE APPOINTED
FORMALLY TO THE POSITION OF
DEPUTY ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF
DEFENSE IN 2018. IN MY CURRENT
ROLE, I WORKED TO ADVANCE U.S.
NATIONAL SECURITY WITH A FOCUS
ON DETERRING RUSSIAN AGGRESSION
AND BUILDING STRONG PARTNERSHIPS
WITH THE FRONT-LINE STATES OF
UKRAINE AND GEORGIA AS WELL AS
10 OTHER ALLIES AND PARTNERS
FROM THE BALKANS TO THE
CAUCUSES. STRENGTHENING
UKRAINE'S CAPACITY TO DEFEND
ITSELF AGAINST RUSSIAN
AGGRESSION IS CENTRAL TO MY
TEAM'S MISSION. THE UNITED
STATES AND OUR ALLIES PROVIDE
UKRAINE WITH SECURITY ASSISTANCE
BECAUSE IT IS IN OUR NATIONAL
SECURITY INTERESTS TO DETER
RUSSIAN AGGRESSION
AROUND THE WORLD. WE ALSO
PROVIDE SECURITY ASSISTANCE SO
THAT UKRAINE CAN NEGOTIATE A
PEACE WITH RUSSIA FROM A
POSITION OF STRENGTH. THE HUMAN
TOLL CONTINUES TO CLIMB IN THIS
ONGOING WAR WITH 14,000
UKRAINIAN LIVES LOST SINCE
RUSSIA'S 2014 INVASION. THESE
SACRIFICES ARE CONTINUALLY IN MY
MIND AS I LEAVE EFFORTS TO
PROVIDE TRAINING INCLUDING
DEFENSIVE ASSISTANT TO THE
UKRAINIAN ARMED FORCES. I HAVE
ALSO SUPPORTED THE MINISTRY OF
DEFENSE PROGRAM TO ENSURE THE
LONG-TERM SUSTAINABILITY OF U.S.
INVESTMENTS IN THE
TRANSFORMATION OF THE UKRAINIAN
MILITARY FROM A SOVIET MODEL TO
A NATO FORCE. THE NATIONAL
DEFENSE
AUTHORIZATION ACT REQUIRES THE
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE TO CERTIFY
DEFENSE REFORM PROGRESS TO
RELIEVE HALF OF THE SECURITY
INITIATIVE OR U.S. AI FUNDS, A
PROVISION WE FIND VERY HELPFUL.
BASED ON RECOMMENDATIONS FROM ME
AND OTHER KEY THE OF THE
ADVISORS, THE DEPARTMENT OF
DEFENSE IN CORONATION WITH THE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE CERTIFIED
FOR THE PURPOSES OF DECREASING
CORRUPTION, INCREASING
ACCOUNTABILITY, AND SUSTAINING
IMPROVEMENT OF COMBAT CAPABILITY
MERITING OBLIGATION OF THE
ENTIRE 250 MILLION IN U.S. AI
FUNDS. THIS BRINGS ME TO THE
TOPIC OF TODAY'S PROCEEDING.
I TESTIFIED ABOUT ALL OF THIS
AT LENGTH. IN JULY, I BECAME
AWARE OF A WHOLE BEING PLACED ON
OBLIGATIONS OF THE STATE
DEPARTMENT'S FOREIGN MILITARY
FINANCING
IN A SERIES OF MEETINGS, I HEARD
THAT THE PRESIDENT DIRECTED THE
OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT BECAUSE OF
HIS CONCERNS ABOUT CORRECTIONS
IN UKRAINE. LET ME SAY AT THE
OUTSET, I HAVE NEVER DISCUSSED
THIS AND NEVER HEARD DIRECTLY
ABOUT THIS MATTER. AT A SENIOR
LEVEL MEETING I ATTENDED ON JULY
26, AS ALL OTHER MEETINGS ON
THIS TOPIC OF WHICH I WAS AWARE,
THE NATIONAL SECURITY COMMUNITY
EXPRESSED UNANIMOUS SUPPORT FOR
RESUMING THE FUNDING AS IN THE
U.S. NATIONAL SECURITY INTEREST.
AT THE JULY 26 MEETING, THERE
WAS ALSO A DISCUSSION WERE
MAKING PROGRESS.
SUFFICIENT PROGRESS
WAS MADE. I FELT THAT THE MATTER
WAS PARTICULARLY URGENT
IN MY UNDER STANDING UP THE
MONEY WAS LEGALLY REQUIRED TO BE
OBLIGATED BY THE END OF THE
FISCAL YEAR. IN THE ENSUING
WEEKS INTO THE HOLD WAS RELEASED
ON SEPTEMBER 11, I PURSUED THREE
TRACKS. FIRST, STARTING ON JULY
31 ON A MEETING, I MADE CLEAR
IT WAS MY UNDERSTANDING THAT
ONCE DOD REACHES THE POINT, IT
DOES NOT HAVE
KNOWN AND NEEDED TO BE A DOD
REDIRECTED PROGRAMMING ACTION.
SECOND, I WAS IN COMMUNICATION
WITH DOD IMPLEMENTING COMMUNITY
. [ CAPTIONERS TRANSITIONING ]
>> GIVEN HOW
CRITICAL THESE FUNDS ARE FOR
BOLSTERING UKRAINE'S SECURITY
AND DETERRING RUSSIA, I
APPRECIATE THIS CONGRESSIONAL
ACTION.
THAT CONCLUDES MY OPENING
STATEMENT BUT BEFORE ENTERING
YOUR QUESTIONS, THERE IS ONE
OTHER MATTER I WOULD LIKE TO
ADDRESS.
I TESTIFIED IN A DEPOSITION
BEFORE THIS COMMITTEE AND OTHER
COMMITTEES ON OCTOBER 23 2019.
AT THAT TIME, I WAS ASKED
QUESTIONS ABOUT WHAT I KNEW
ABOUT WHEN THE UKRAINIAN
GOVERNMENT MAY HAVE LEARNED
ABOUT ANY HOLD ON SECURITY
ASSISTANCE FUNDS. I ANSWERED
THOSE QUESTIONS BASED ON MY
KNOWLEDGE AT THAT TIME. SINCE MY
DEPOSITION. I HAVE REVIEWED MY
CALENDAR AND THE ONLY MEETING
WHERE I RECALLED A UKRAINIAN
OFFICIAL RAISE THE ISSUE WITH ME
IS ON SEPTEMBER FIVE AT THE
UKRAINIAN INDEPENDENCE DAY
CELEBRATION. I HAVE, HOWEVER,
SINCE LEARNED ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION ABOUT THE SUBJECT
FROM MY STAFF. PRIOR TO MY
DEPOSITION TESTIMONY, I VOTED
DISCUSSING TESTIMONY WITH
MEMBERS OF MY STAFF AND ANYONE
OTHER THAN MY ATTORNEY TO MAKE
SURE MY DEPOSITION TESTIMONY WAS
BASED ON MY PERSONAL KNOWLEDGE.
MY DEPOSITION TESTIMONY WAS
PUBLICLY
RELEASED ON NOVEMBER 11, 2019.
MEMBERS OF MY STAFF READ THE
TESTIMONY AND HAVE PROVIDED
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION. ON THE
ISSUE OF UKRAINE'S KNOWLEDGE OF
THE HOLD, WHERE UKRAINE IS
ASKING QUESTIONS ABOUT POSSIBLE
ISSUES WITH THE FLOW OF
ASSISTANCE, MY STAFF SHOWED ME
TWO UNCLASSIFIED EMAILS THAT
THEY RECEIVED FROM THE STATE
DEPARTMENT. ONE WAS RECEIVED ON
JULY 25 AT 2:31 PM. THAT EMAIL
SAID THAT THE UKRAINIAN EMBASSY
AND HOUSE FOREIGN AFFAIRS
COMMITTEE ARE ASKING ABOUT
SECURITY ASSISTANCE. THE SECOND
EMAIL WAS RECEIVED ON JULY 25 AT
4:25 PM. THAT EMAIL SAID THAT
THE
HILL KNOWS ABOUT THE FMS
SITUATION TO AN EXTENT AND SO
DOES THE UKRAINIAN EMBASSY. I
DID NOT RECEIVE EITHER OF THESE
EMAILS. MY STAFF DO NOT RECALL
INFORMING ME ABOUT THEM AND I DO
NOT
RECALL BEING MADE AWARE OF THE
CONTENT AT THE TIME. I DO NOT
HAVE ANY ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
ABOUT PRECISELY WHAT THE
UKRAINIANS HAVE SAID. WHAT MAVEN
THEIR SOURCE OF INFORMATION
ABOUT A HOLD OR ANY POSSIBLE
ISSUES WITH THE FLOW OF
ASSISTANCE OR WHAT THE STATE
APARTMENT OFFICIALS MAY HAVE
TOLD HIM. MY STAFF ADVISED ME IN
THE LAST FEW DAYS OF THE
FOLLOWING FACTS THAT MAY BE
RELEVANT TO THIS INQUIRY. MY
STAFF DOESN'T RECALL INFORMING
ABOUT THEM AND I DO NOT RECALL
BEING
MADE AWARE OF THIS. ON JULY 3,
AT 4:23 PM, THEY RECEIVED AN
EMAIL FROM THE STATE DEPARTMENT
STATING THEY HAD HURT THE SEA
AND IS CURRENTLY BEING BLOCKED
BY OMB. THIS APPARENTLY REFERS
TO THE CONGRESSIONAL
NOTIFICATION
FOR UKRAINE SMS. I HAVE NO
FURTHER INFORMATION. ON JULY 25,
MEMBER OF MY STAFF GOT A
QUESTION FOR ME UKRAINE EMBASSY
CONTACT ASKING WHAT WAS GOING ON
WITH UKRAINE SECURITY
ASSISTANCE. BECAUSE, AT THAT
TIME, WE DID NOT KNOW WHAT THE
GUIDANCE WAS ON USA I, THE OMB
NOTICE OF APPORTIONMENT ARRIVED
THAT DAY BUT THE STAFF MEMBER
DID NOT FIND OUT ABOUT IT UNTIL
LATER. I WAS INFORMED THE STAFF
MEMBER TOLD THE UKRAINIAN
OFFICIALS WE WERE MOVING
FORWARD ON USA I BUT RECOMMENDED
THAT THEY UKRAINE EMBASSY CHECK
IN WITH STATE REGARDING SMS.
SOMETIME DURING THE WEEK OF
AUGUST 6 -10 A UKRAINE EMBASSY
OFFICER PULLED A MEMBER OF MY
STAFF THAT A UKRAINIAN OFFICIAL
MAY RAISE CONCERNS ABOUT
SECURITY ASSISTANCE IN AN
UPCOMING MEETING. MY
UNDERSTANDING IS THE ISSUE WAS
NOT RAISED UP AGAIN, I HAVE NO
FURTHER INFORMATION ABOUT WHAT
CONCERNS ABOUT THE SECURITY
ASSISTANCE MAY HAVE HAD AT THAT
TIME. MY STAFF RECALLED THINKING
THAT YOUR CLEANING WERE AWARE OF
THE HOLD ON SECURITY ASSISTANCE
DURING AUGUST BUT THEY CANNOT
PINPOINT ANY SPECIFIC
CONVERSATIONS WHERE CAME UP. MY
STAFF TOLD ME THEY ARE AWARE OF
ADDITIONAL MEETINGS
WHERE THEY SAW OFFICIALS FROM
THE UKRAINIAN EMBASSY IN AUGUST
AND THEY BELIEVE THE QUESTION OF
THE HOLD CAME UP AT SOME POINT.
BUT, THEY TOLD ME TO DO NOT FIND
ANY CORRESPONDING EMAILS OR
OTHER RECORDS OF THOSE MEETING.
CONSEQUENTLY, NEITHER THEY NOR I
KNEW PRECISELY WHEN OR WHAT
ADDITIONAL DISCUSSIONS MAY HAVE
OCCURRED WITH THE UKRAINIAN IN
THE MONTH OF AUGUST. IF I HAD
MORE DETAILS ON THESE MATTERS, I
WOULD OFFER THEM TO THE
COMMITTEE NOT THIS IS THE EXTENT
OF ADDITIONAL INFORMATION I HAVE
RECEIVED SINCE MY DEPOSITION.
MR. CHAIRMAN, I WELCOME YOUR
QUESTIONS. I WILL ANSWER THEM TO
THE BEST OF MY ABILITY. THANK
YOU.
>> THANK YOU FOR YOUR TESTIMONY.
FOR THIS HEARING, WE WILL FORGO
THE FIRST ROUND OF QUESTIONS BY
COUNSEL AND PROCEED TO MEMBER
QUESTIONS UNDER THE FIVE MINUTE
RULE. I DO WANT TO RESPOND TO
THE COMMENTS OF MY RANKING
MEMBER, HOWEVER,
THAT SUGGESTED THIS IS A
SURPRISE TO THE MENORAH. WE
INFORMED THE MINORITY LAST NIGHT
AFTER OUR HEARING THAT WE WOULD,
BECAUSE THE NATURE OF THE
TESTIMONY TODAY, WE DO NOT
BELIEVE THAT HE STAFF MEMBER WAS
NECESSARY. AND, THE MESSAGE WE
GOT BACK FROM THE MINORITY WAS
OK, GOT IT . THANKS FOR THE
HEADS UP. THE MINORITY WAS ON
NOTICE, IT RAISED NO OBJECTION
ABOUT GOING DIRECTLY TO MEMBER
ROUNDS. I WANT TO POINT OUT THAT
THE MERIT HE HAS REPRESENTED WE
HAVE CALLED - HAVE NOT CALLED
MINORITY WITNESSES. THAT IS NOT
ACCURATE THAT MR. HALE APPEARS
TONIGHT IS A MINORITY WITNESS.
THAT IS NOT HOW YOU CHARACTERIZE
YOURSELF, MR. HALE. BUT YOUR
TESTIMONY WAS REQUESTED BY THE
MINORITY. LIKEWISE, TWO OF THE
WITNESSES, AMBASSADOR BROKER AS
WELL AS MR. MORRISON WERE BOTH
MINORITY REQUESTED WITNESSES.
NOW, MR. VOLKER, HE TESTIFIED
THAT HE DIDN'T BELIEVE ANY OF
THE ALLEGATIONS AGAINST JOE
BIDEN. AND, IN RETROSPECT, HE
SHOULD'VE UNDERSTOOD THAT AN
INVESTIGATION INTO IS NOT WAS AN
INVESTIGATION INTO BIDEN WHICH
HE ACKNOWLEDGED WOULD BE
INAPPROPRIATE. AND MR. MORRISON
GAVE TESTIMONY AS TO
CONVERSATIONS THAT HE HAD WITH
AMBASSADOR SONDLAND ABOUT THE
CONVERSATIONS THAT HE HAD
RELAYED TO THE UKRAINIANS ABOUT
THE HOLD AND SECURITY ASSISTANCE
BEING A RESULT OF THE FAILURE TO
SECURE THE INVESTIGATION. I CAN
UNDERSTAND WHY THE MINORITY DOES
NOT WANT TO CHARACTERIZE THEM AS
MINORITY REQUESTS WERE WITNESSES
BUT NONETHELESS, THEY WERE
MINORITY REQUESTED WITNESSES. I
RECOGNIZE MYSELF FOR FIVE
MINUTES. AND, I WANT TO BEGIN BY
ASKING YOU
, MISS COOPER, ABOUT WHAT YOU
JUST INFORMED US OF. I WANT TO
MAKE SURE I UNDERSTAND THE
IMPORT OF WHAT YOU ARE SAYING.
AS EARLY AS JULY 25, THE SAME
DAY THAT PRESIDENT TRUMP SPOKE
WITH PRESIDENT ZELENSKY ON THE
PHONE AND ASKED FOR THIS FAVOR,
THE SAME DAY THAT PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY THANKED THE UNITED
STATES FOR ITS MILITARY SUPPORT
AND SINGLE DAY WAS READY TO
PURCHASE MORE JAVELINS,. ON THAT
DATE, YOU GOT INQUIRIES
, YOUR STAFF GOT INQUIRIES FROM
SOMEONE AT THE UKRAINIAN EMBASSY
HE WAS CONCERNED ABOUT THE
STATUS OF THE MILITARY
ASSISTANCE. IS THAT CORRECT?
>> SIR, THAT IS CORRECT. I WOULD
SAY THAT SPECIFICALLY THE
UKRAINIAN EMBASSY STAFF ASKED
WHAT IS GOING ON WITH UKRAINE
SECURITY ASSISTANCE?
>> AND, DID THAT CONNOTE YOU
THEY WERE CONCERNED THAT
SOMETHING WAS GOING ON WITH IT?
>> YES SIR.
>> AND, YOU RECEIVED YOUR STAFF
RECEIVE MORE THAN ONE INQUIRY ON
THAT DATE WHAT WAS THE OTHER,
WAS THE NATURE THE OTHER AND
KAREN JULY 25?
>> SIR, THAT WAS THE ONE INQUIRY
TO MY STAFF. BUT, THE OTHER
POINTS I HAD RAISED WERE EMAILS
REFLECTING OUTREACH TO THE STATE
DEPARTMENT.
>>
SO, THE UKRAINIAN EMBASSY WAS
CONTACTING THE STATE DEPARTMENT
TO FIND OUT ABOUT ITS PORTION OF
MILITARY ASSISTANCE?
>> YES SIR.
>> AND, WAS AT SIMILARLY A
CONCERN ABOUT WHAT IS GOING ON
WITH HER TERRY EIGHT?
>> IT WAS SIMILARLY A QUESTION
ABOUT WHAT IS GOING ON WITH
SECURITY ASSISTANCE.
>> AND, YOUR STAFF OR ONE OF THE
OTHER DEPARTMENT STAFF ALSO
HEARD IN AUGUST, IT ADDITIONAL
INQUIRIES FROM THE UKRAINIAN
EMBASSY ABOUT A POTENTIAL HOLD
UP IN THE MILITARY ASSISTANCE?
>> SIR, I WANT TO BE CAREFUL
ABOUT HOW I PHRASE THIS. MY
STAFF RECALLED HAVING HAD
MEETINGS WITH
UKRAINIAN EMBASSY
REPRESENTATIVES DURING THE MONTH
OF AUGUST. AND, THEY BELIEVE THE
TOPIC CAME UP AT SOME POINT
DURING THOSE MEETINGS. BUT, THEY
DON'T RECALL THE PRECISE DATE OR
SPECIFICALLY WHAT THE NATURE OF
THE DISCUSSION WAS.
>> BUT, YOUR STAFF AT LEAST
GLEANED FROM THOSE CONVERSATIONS
THAT TRAINING EMBASSY WAS AWARE
THAT THERE WAS SOME KIND OF A
HOLD ON THE ASSISTANCE.
>> THE WAY I WOULD PHRASE IT IS
THERE WAS SOME KIND OF AN ISSUE.
YES.
>>
YOU ARE NOW, MS. COOPER, THE
THIRD WITNESS BEFORE COMMITTEE
WHO WAS TESTIFIED THAT THE
UKRAINIANS AND OUT ABOUT THE
PROBLEM OR HOLD ON THE SECURITY
ASSISTANCE PRIOR TO BECOMING
PUBLIC. THE FIRST INDICATE THAT
MAY GO BACK AS EARLY AS THE DATE
THE PRESIDENT CALLED PRESIDENT
ZELENSKY. LET ME MOVE TO A
RELATED ISSUE. IN AUGUST, YOU
TESTIFIED AT YOUR DEPOSITION,
THAT YOU MET WITH KURT VOLKER IN
AUGUST
, I BELIEVE IT IS AUGUST 20. THE
HOLD ON SECURITY ASSISTANCE WAS
STILL IN PLACE. YOU TESTIFIED
THAT INVESTOR VOLKER TOLD YOU IF
YOU GET GET ZELENSKY TO MAKE A
PUBLIC STATEMENT, THAT WOULD
QUOTE SOMEHOW DISAVOW ANY
INTERFERENCE IN U.S. ELECTIONS
THAT COMMIT TO THE PROSECUTION
OF ANY INDIVIDUALS INVOLVED IN
ELECTION INTERFERENCE THOUGHT IT
MIGHT LIFT OLD ON SECURITY
ASSISTANCE. IS THAT CORRECT?
>> SIR, I BELIEVE THAT I
TESTIFIED THAT IT WAS MINE
INFERENCE THAT WIDE THAT THE
HOLD
UKRAINE SECURITY ASSISTANCE.
>> THAT WAS YOUR INFERENCE
BECAUSE, AT THE TIME YOU WERE
TALKING ABOUT THE HOLD ON
SECURITY ASSISTANCE?
>> THAT'S CORRECT. THE FIRST
PART OF OUR CONVERSATION WAS
ABOUT THE HOLD ON SECURITY
ASSISTANCE.
>> IT WAS DURING A PORTION OF
THE CONVERSATION THAT HE BROUGHT
UP THE EFFORT TO GET THIS PUBLIC
STATEMENT?
>>
IT WAS DURING THAT CONVERSATION,
NOT SURE I WOULD SAY IT IS
DURING THAT PART OF THE
CONVERSATION.
>> WHAT ELSE DID YOU DISCUSS IN
THE CONVERSATION?
>> THE ONLY TWO TOPICS I RECALL
IS THE URGENCY OF LISTING THE
HOLD ON SECURITY ASSISTANCE AND
THEN HIM RELAYING THIS EFFORT,
THIS
DIPLOMATIC EFFORT I PREVIOUSLY
HAD BEEN UNAWARE OF.
>> SO, HE DIDN'T HAVE ANY
DISCUSSION ABOUT A WHITE HOUSE
MEETING?
>> SIR, I DON'T RECALL
SPECIFICALLY TALKING ABOUT THE
WHITE HOUSE MEETING BUT I'VE HAD
MANY CONVERSATIONS ABOUT THE
DESIRE FOR THE WHITE HOUSE
MEETING SO
IT IS LIKELY THAT WAS PART OF
THE CONVERSATION.
>> BUT THE TWO THINGS YOU DO
RECALL ARE THE, YOU TALKED ABOUT
THE HOLD ON SECURITY ASSISTANCE
AND THAT HE BROUGHT UP THIS
OUTLOOK STATEMENT THAT THEY
WANTED ZELENSKY, THAT HE THOUGHT
MIGHT BE USEFUL?
>> THAT IS CORRECT, SIR.
>> MR. NUNEZ.
>>
THANK YOU GENERALLY FOR YIELDING
. AMBASSADOR HALE AND MS.
COOPER, THANK YOU FOR FOR BEING
HERE. IN HIS OPENING, RANKING
MEMBER NUNEZ REFERENCE PRESIDENT
TRUMP'S GENERAL SKEPTICISM OF
PROVIDING AID IN THE AMOUNT OF
FOREIGN AID BEING PROVIDED TO
FOREIGN COUNTRIES. DO YOU AGREE
THAT CHARACTERIZATION, AND BEST
RACHEL?
>> WE'VE OFTEN HEARD AT THE
STATE DEPARTMENT THAT THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
WANTS TO MAKE SURE THAT FOREIGN
ASSISTANCE IS REVIEWED TO MAKE
SURE IT IS IN U.S. NATIONAL
INTEREST AND WE EVALUATED
CONTINUOUSLY SO THAT THEY MEET
CERTAIN CRITERIA THAT THE
PRESENT HAS ESTABLISHED.
>> IS IT FAIR TO SAY THAT
PRESIDENT TRUMP HAS LOOKED TO
OVERHAUL HOW FOREIGN AID IS
DISTRIBUTED?
>> YES, THE NSC
LOST A FOREIGN ASSISTANCE REVIEW
PROCESS LATE AUGUST OR EARLY
SEPTEMBER, 2010. BACK THROUGH
OUT HIS CAMPAIGN AND
ADMINISTRATION, PRESIDENT TRUMP
HAS REFRAME AMERICAN FOREIGN
POLICY IN ECONOMIC TERMS AS HE
DESCRIBED AMERICA FIRST.  AND
CONSISTENT WITH THAT WELL BEFORE
THERE WAS A WHISTLEBLOWER
TALKING ABOUT A PAUSE ON AID TO
THE UKRAINE, THE PRESIDENT HAD
EXPRESSED GENUINE CONCERN ABOUT
PROVIDING U.S. FOREIGN
ASSISTANCE TO THAT POINT. IS IT
FAIR TO SAY THE PRESIDENT HAS
WANTED TO ENSURE THE AMERICAN
TEXT PAIR
, THE MONEY WOULD BE EFFECTIVELY
SPENT OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES?
>> YES.
THAT IS THE BROAD INTENT OF THE
FOREIGN ASSISTANCE REVIEW AMONG
OTHER GOALS.
>> HAS THE PRESIDENT EXPRESSED
HE EXPECT OUR ALLIES TO GIVE
THEIR FAIR SHARE OF FOREIGN AID
AS EVIDENCE BY APPOINTEE RAISED
DURING THE JULY 25 PHONE CALL
WITH RESIDENTS ZELENSKY TO THAT
EFFECT?
>> THE PRINCIPLE OF GREATER
BURDEN SHARING ABOUT ALLIES IS
AN IMPORTANT ELEMENT OF THE
FOREIGN ASSISTANCE REVIEW.
>> IN A TRUMP ADMINISTRATION,
USA IS WITHHELD FROM FOREIGN
COUNTRIES FOR NUMBER OF FACTORS?
>> REC.
>> AND YOU TESTIFIED IN YOUR
PRIOR TESTIMONY THAT IT IS
NORMAL TO HAVE DELAYS ON A.
>> I MAY HAVE SAID IT THAT WAY
BUT CERTAINLY IT IS AN
OCCURRENCE, IT DOES OCCUR.
>> IN THE PAST YEAR, UKRAINE WAS
NOT THE ONLY HUNDRED HAVE EIGHT
WITHHELD FROM IT. IS THAT
CORRECT?
>> CORRECT.
>> IN THE PAST YEAR, WAS EIGHT
WITHHELD FROM PAKISTAN?
>> YES SIR.
>> WHY WAS EIGHT WITHHELD FROM
PAKISTAN?
>> BECAUSE OF UNHAPPINESS OVER
THE POLICIES AND BEHAVIOR OF THE
TINY GOVERNMENT
TOWARDS CERTAIN PROXY GROUPS
THAT WERE INVOLVED IN CONFLICT
WITH THE UNITED STATES.
>> IN THE PAST YEAR, WAS EIGHT
WITHHELD FROM HONDURAS?
>> EIGHT WAS WITHHELD FROM THE
THREE STATES IN NORTHERN,
CENTRAL AMERICA. YES.
>> LAST YEAR WAS EIGHT WITHHELD
FROM LEBANON?
>> YES SIR.
>> ONE
AID WAS FIRST WITHHELD FROM
LEBANON, WERE YOU GIVEN A REASON
WHY IT WAS WITHHELD?
>> NO.
>> SO, HAVING NO EXPLANATION WHY
AID IS BEING WITHHELD IS NOT IN
COMMON?
>> I WOULD SAY IT IS NOT THE
NORMAL WAY THAT WE FUNCTION.
>> BUT, IT DOES HAPPEN?
>> IT DOES HAPPEN.
>> IS IT TRUE WHEN IT WAS BEING
WITHHELD FROM LEBANON, THAT WAS
AT THE SAME TIME THAT IT IS
BEING WITHHELD FROM UKRAINE.
>> YES SIR.
>> AND, YOU TESTIFIED THAT THE
AID TO LEBANON STILL HASN'T BEEN
RELEASED
. IS THAT RIGHT?
>> THAT IS CORRECT.
>> BUT THE EIGHT TO THE UK AND
WAS RELEASED ON SEPTEMBER 11.
CORRECT?
>> YES.
>> IT IS FAIR TO SAY THAT AID
HAD BEEN WITHHELD FROM SEVERAL
COUNTRIES ACROSS THE GLOBE FOR
VARIOUS REASONS AND IN SOME
CASES FOR REASONS THAT ARE STILL
UNKNOWN JUST IN THE PAST YEAR.
>> CORRECT, SIR.
>> SO, THE ASSERTION HAS BEEN
MADE THAT PRESIDENT TRUMP
UKRAINE POLICY CHANGED WHEN
THERE WAS A PAUSE IN THE AID,
WHERE THE AID WAS WITHHELD. IS
THAT AN ACCURATE STATEMENT?
>> THAT IS NOT THE WAY I
UNDERSTOOD THINGS HAPPENING AT
THE TIME
. WE ARE NOT GIVEN AN
EXPLANATION.
>> IN TERMS OF OUR POLICY, IN
TERMS OF A TO THE UKRAINE, YOU
DESCRIBE IS VERY ROBUST.
>> YES.
>> AS EVIDENCE BY PRESIDENT
TRUMP POLICY DECISION TO PROVIDE
LETHAL DEFENSIVE WEAPONS.
JAVELIN MISSILES.
>> IT WAS VERY ROBUST. YES SIR.
AND THAT WAS THE DECISION THAT
PRESIDENT TRUMP MADE THAT, THE
PRIOR ADMINISTRATION, PRESIDENT
OBAMA HAD NOT DONE. LETHAL
WEAPONS AND NOT BEEN PROVIDED TO
THE UKRAINE IN THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION, CORRECT?
>> I WAS NOT INVOLVED IN
UKRAINIAN AFFAIRS
DURING THE OBAMA AND THE
DECISION SO I DON'T FEEL
COMPETENT TO ADDRESS THAT.
>> WIN A TO THE HURRICANE WAS
PUT ON PAUSE, I BELIEVE YOU
TESTIFIED THAT THERE MAY BEEN
CONCERNED BY SECRETARY KENT AND
BY AMBASSADOR TAYLOR THAT WAS
CONTRIBUTING TO A POTENTIALLY
NEGATIVE EFFECT ON U.S.-UKRAINE
RELATIONS. YOU AGREE WITH THAT?
>>
WELL, THE STATE DEPARTMENT
POSITION WAS TO ADVOCATE FOR THE
CONTINUATION OF THAT ASSISTANCE
AS AN IMPORTANT ELEMENT, THE KEY
ELEMENT OF OUR STRATEGY TO
SUPPORT UKRAINE AGAINST RUSSIA.
>> MY TIME HAS EXPIRED THAT I
YIELD BACK.
>> THANK YOU MR. CHAIRMAN. I'M
DELIGHTED TO FOLLOW MR.
RADCLIFFE BUT HE JUST PERFECTLY
SUMMARIZED THE DEFENSE THAT MY
REPUBLICAN COLLEAGUES ARE
MOUNTING OF THIS BEHAVIOR. THE
DEFENSE GOES LIKE THIS. THE
PRESIDENT IS ACTING ON DEEP,
HISTORICAL CONCERNED, APPARENTLY
INVISIBLE CONCERNS ABOUT
CORRUPTION AND, BECAUSE HE IS SO
CONCERNED ABOUT CORRUPTION IN
THE UKRAINE, HE IS HOLDING UP
AID AND BEING PRUDENT AND
JUDICIOUS. THE FIRST PART OF
THAT IS PRETTY EASY TO DISPOSE
OF THE CAUSE PRESIDENT TRUMP
WASN'T WORRIED ABOUT CORRUPTION
IN THE UKRAINE. IN FACT, IN THE
TWO CONVERSATIONS HE HAD WITH
THE PRESIDENT OF UKRAINE ON
APRIL 21 AND JULY 25, NOT ONCE
DOES THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES USE THE WORD OR MENTION
CORRUPTION. THE SECOND PART OF
THAT IS A LITTLE MORE
INTERESTING. HE'S JUST BEING
PRUDENT IN HOLDING UP A. THAT IS
NOT JUST WRONG. IT IS ILLEGAL.
BECAUSE, MS. COOPER, I WANT YOU
TO HELP US WALK THROUGH THIS.
SINCE THE IMPOUNDMENT CONTROL
ACT OF 1974, THE PRESIDENT HAS
NOT HAD THE AUTHORITY TO
ON A WHIM, OR OUT OF PRUDENCE OR
AS MY REPUBLICANS SAY, A GENERAL
SKEPTICISM OF FOREIGN AID TO
STOP FOREIGN AID. MS. COOPER,
UNDER OUR CONSTITUTION, IT IS
THE CONGRESS AND NOT THE PRESENT
CONTROLS THE POWER OF THE PURSE.
CORRECT?
>> YES SIR. THE SECURITY
ASSISTANCE, THE ASSISTANCE THAT
WAS AUTHORIZED TO UKRAINE WAS
AUTHORIZED PARIS BY THE
CONGRESS, CORRECT?
>> YES SIR.
>> CONGRESS IS CONCERNED ABOUT
CORRUPTION. HE WANTS TO ENSURE
THAT AMERICAN FOREIGN ASSISTANCE
IS SPENT WISELY AND DOES NOT
WORSEN CORRUPTION. AND SO WHEN
CONGRESS AUTHORIZED THIS MONEY,
IT BUILT IN CONDITIONS JUST AS
ESTHER RED CLIFF SUGGESTED. BY
LAW, THE UKRAINE AND GET ALL THE
MONEY UNTIL IT DEMONSTRATED THAT
IT UNDERTAKING
SUBSTANTIAL ANTICORRUPTION
REFORMS. MS. COOPER, UNDER THE
LAW, THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
WORKS WITH THE STATE DEPARTMENT
AND OTHER AGENCIES TO ESTABLISH
ANTI-CORRUPTION BENCHMARKS AND
DETERMINE WHETHER UKRAINE HAS
MEANT THOSE BENCHMARKS. CORRECT?
>> THAT'S CORRECT. THAT
PROVISION ATTAINS TO THE
SECURITY ASSISTANCE INITIATIVE.
>> THAT IS A LEGALLY SPECIFIED
PROCESS. THAT IS NOT THE
PRESIDENT IN THE OVER OFFICE
MANUFACTURING A GENERAL
SKEPTICISM OF FOREIGN AID.
RIGHT?
>>
IT IS A CONGRESSIONALLY MANDATED
PROCESS. YES SIR.
>> DID THE PROCESS TAKE PLACE
FOR THE DOD FUNDING THAT WAS
CALLED UP IN JULY?
>>
THERE IS A PROCESS THAT TOOK
PLACE FOR THE CERTIFICATION,
TOOK PLACE PRIOR TO
THE MAY CERTIFICATION TO THE
U.S. CONGRESS.
>> SO, RIGHT. NOTE ONLY DID IT
TAKE PLACE BEFORE, AS REQUIRED
BY LAW, BUT MONTHS BEFORE
PRESIDENT TRUMP FROZE THE MONEY,
THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE IN
CONSULTATION WITH STATE SENT A
LETTER TO CONGRESS CERTIFYING
AND YOU SAID THIS IN YOUR
OPENING STATEMENT. THE
GOVERNMENT OF UKRAINE HAS TAKEN
SUBSTANTIAL ACTIONS TO MAKE
DEFENSE
INSTITUTIONAL REFORMS FOR THE
PURPOSES OF DECREASING
CORRUPTION AND INCREASING
ACCOUNTABILITY AND SUSTAINING
IMPROVEMENTS OF COMBAT
CAPABILITY ENABLED BY USE
ASSISTANCE. SO, BY THE TIME
PRESIDENT TRUMP FROZE THE AID,
THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE HAD
SPENT WEEKS, IF NOT MONTHS,
DETERMINING THAT THE UKRAINIAN
GOVERNMENT MET EVERY REQUIREMENT
IN THE LAW AND MADE SIGNIFICANT
STRIDES IN COMBATING CORRUPTION.
IS THAT CORRECT? THAT IS
CORRECT. ME MADE THAT
DETERMINATION AND MADE.
>> THIS WASN'T ABOUT
CORRUPTION.  THE TIMELINE PROVES
IT. WHEN IN FACT, IF THERE IS
ANY DOUBT ABOUT WHAT WAS GOING
ON HERE. THE CHAIRMAN REFERRED
TO YOUR INFERENCE FROM THE
CONVERSATION WITH AMBASSADOR
FULCHER THAT IF THE UKRAINE MADE
A STATEMENT
TO MEETING TO THE
INVESTIGATIONS, THE AID WOULD BE
LIFTED. YOU COVER THAT WITH THE
CHAIRMAN. THEN OF COURSE WE HAVE
THE PRESS CONFERENCE OF OCTOBER
17, WHEN MICK MULVANEY LET THE
CAT FULLY OUT OF THE BAG. HE
REVEALED PRESIDENT TRUMP TALK TO
HIM ABOUT AND I QUOTE
MICK MULVANEY HERE, THE
CORRECTION RELATED TO THE DNC
SERVER AND ADMITTED THAT QUOTE,
THAT IS WHY WE HELD UP THE
MONEY. ANY OTHER EXPLANATION FOR
THE HOLD IS A FARCE. NOW, IN MY
REMAINING 30 SECONDS. JUST SO
THAT PEOPLE UNDERSTAND WHAT I
REFER TO. RICHARD NIXON DECIDED,
I DON'T KNOW IF HE HAD A GENERAL
SKEPTICISM OF FOREIGN AID,
RICHARD NIXON DECIDED TO HOLD UP
CONGRESSIONALLY MANDATED AID AND
AS A RESULT, CONGRESS WENT TO
WORK AND PASS THE IMPOUNDMENT
CONTROL ACT OF 1974 WHICH
PROHIBITED THE PRESIDENT FROM
WITHHOLDING
CONGRESSIONALLY APPROPRIATED
FUNDS WITHOUT THE APPROVAL OF
CONGRESS FOR ANY REASON. IS THAT
CORRECT, MS. COOPER?
>> SIR, I'M NOT A LAWYER BUT
THAT APPROXIMATE
MY UNDERSTANDING OF THE
PROVISION OF THE IMPOUNDING.
>> I WILL GO WITH THAT. THANK
YOU VERY MUCH. I YIELD MY
BALANCE OF THE TIME.
>>
>> AS FAR HARVEY SAID, HERE'S
THE REST OF THE STORY. MY
COLLEAGUE FAILED TO PUT RESPECT
TO THE CERTAIN ISSUES THAT DOD
CERTIFICATION, IT WAS NARROWLY
FOCUSED ON
DEFENSE INSTITUTIONAL REFORM AND
COMBAT CAPABILITY. IS THAT
CORRECT? THAT'S CORRECT, SIR.
>> I APPRECIATE THAT. MY
COLLEAGUES SEEM TO ME THAT OUT.
HE READ IT WHEN YOU READ YOUR
STATEMENT BUT HE LEFT OFF THE
CORRECTED EMPHASIS.
CERTIFICATION IN MAY DIDN'T
REALLY SPEAK TO THE BROADER
CONCEPT OF CORRUPTION THROUGHOUT
THE REST OF UKRAINE THAT THE
PRESIDENT WE'VE BE FAMILIAR
WITH.
>> SIR, THE MAY CERTIFICATION
WAS SPECIFIC TO THE DEFENSE
VECTOR, THE DEFENSE INDUSTRY AND
IT DID REFERENCE THE IMPORTANCE
OF CIVILIAN CONTROL OF THE
MILITARY WHICH RELATES MORE
BROADLY TO -
>> NONE OF US WILL ARGUE THAT
THAT DEMONSTRATES CORRUPTION.
MS. COOPER, MAYBE YOU CAN SHED
LIGHT ON DETAILS. WE TALKED
ABOUT THE SECURITY ASSISTANCE
PROGRAM, 250 MILLION, SOME WOULD
ARGUE THAT BECAUSE THE PAUSE,
PEOPLE DIED IN AUGUST BECAUSE OF
THE PAUSE. CAN YOU HELP US
UNDERSTAND WHAT OBLIGATED AND
WAS THERE THINGS THAT WERE ABOUT
TO BE DELIVERED TO THE UKRAINE?
WAS UKRAINE OUT OF AMMUNITION?
WAS IT OUT OF JAVELINS? BECAUSE
OF THIS PAUSE, THEY DIDN'T GET
CERTAIN LEGAL EQUIPMENT THEY
NEEDED IN ORDER TO PROTECT THEIR
FOLKS DURING THE MONTH OF
AUGUST?
>> SIR, WE WILL DELIVER ALL OF
THE -
>> I WILL UNDERSTAND THAT I'M
TRYING TO GET A TIMELINE.
>> THERE WAS NO SHORTFALL IN
EQUIPMENT DELIVERY THAT WERE
EXPECTED WITHIN THAT TIMEFRAME.
OBLIGATE MEANS YOU'RE PUTTING
THE FUNDING ON CONTRACT
.
>> OK.
>> YOU ARE STARTING THE PROCESS.
>> THOSE CONTRACTS WILL BE
FULFILLED 4th QUARTER PERHAPS
OR WHATEVER IT WAS?
>> SIR, I HAVE TO SAY I'M A
POLICY OFFICIAL. I'M NOT A
CONTRACTING EXPERT. I, MY
UNDERSTANDING IS THAT WE WILL BE
ABLE TO ACHE UP FOR LOST TIME IN
THE CONTRACTING PROCESS.
>> FANTASTIC. YOU GO THROUGH
THREE OR FOUR STEPS BECAUSE YOU
DISAGREE WITH THE WHOLE BEING
PLACED ON THE ASSISTANCE. AND,
CERTAINLY I AGREE WITH THAT. DID
YOU GET ANY KIND OF CRITICISM
FROM THE FOLKS YOU DEAL WITH
BECAUSE YOU'RE GOING AGAINST THE
DIRECTION TO PUT A HOLD ON THAT?
DID YOU GET CRITICIZED AT ALL
FOR THAT?
>> ABSOLUTELY NOT. THE ENTIRE
CHAIN OF COMMAND WAS SUPPORTIVE
OF ADVOCATING OR REMOVING THE
HOLES ON THE FUNDS.
>> AND YOU ARE RESTRICTED ON THE
FULL THROATED ADVOCATING BEHALF
OF GETTING THIS HOLD LIFTED
,  WERE YOU?
>> NO SIR. NO RESTRICTIONS.
>> OK. WELL, THANK YOU FOR
THAT. I THOUGHT YOU MIGHT BE
MORE IN TOUCH WITH ACTUAL
SPECIFICS OF THE ACCOUNTING
PROCESS. AGAIN, THANK YOU FOR
BEING HERE TONIGHT. I YIELD
BACK.
>> THANK YOU, MR. CHAIRMAN.
AMBASSADOR HALE,
WHERE DID YOU ACTUALLY FIND OUT
ABOUT THE HOLD ON THE UKRAINE
ASSISTANCE? WAS IT JULY 21?
>> YES. IN THE DEPOSITION THAT I
DID, I MISSPOKE. I WAS CONFUSED
AND I CONFUSED JUNE 20 FORCED
WHICH STATE SENT THE CN TO THE
COMMERCIAL NOTIFICATION FOR OMB
CLEARANCE THOUGHT IT WAS ONLY
AFTER JULY 18 AND THE 21st IS
WHERE I HEARD A POTENTIAL HOLE.
>> THANK YOU FOR THE
CLARIFICATION. DID YOU ATTEND
THE JULY 26 DEPUTIES MEETING
? THE DEPUTIES COMMITTEE MEETING
THAT OCCURRED?
>> YES I DID.
>> WAS IT YOUR UNDERSTANDING
THAT THE PRESIDENT DIRECTED THE
HOLD?
>> WE WERE TOLD IN THAT MEETING
I THE OMB PRESENT IS THAT THEY
WERE OBJECTING TO PROCEEDING
WITH THE ASSISTANCE BECAUSE THE
PRESIDENT HAD SO DIRECTED
THROUGH THE CHIEF OF STAFF, THE
ACTING CHIEF OF STAFF.
>> WHAT WAS THE STATE
DEPARTMENT'S POSITION REGARDING
THE HOLD?
>> THE STATE DEPARTMENT
ADVOCATED AS I DID IN THE
MEETING, WE ARE PROCEEDING WITH
ALL ASSISTANCE CONSISTENT WITH
OUR POLICIES AND INTERESTS IN
UKRAINE.
>> YOU BELIEVED WHAT YOU SAID,
YOU BELIEVED IN THE RELEASE OF
THE HOLD?
>> YES I DID. DID ANYONE IN THE
END OF JULY SUPPORT THE HOLD?
DID ANYBODY WANT THE HOLE
How is the security assistance
in the national security
interest of the United States,
what is our interest?
I have constituents in Alabama
who are wondering why we should
care about the security
of the hold on the security
assistance.
>> Yes ma'am, this specific
assistance helps build the
capacity of Ukrainian Armed
Forces. It is important to
understand that these are forces
that are fighting to defend
themselves against Russian
aggression every day. It is an
ongoing war. They do need this
equipment to support their
ability to defend themselves and
I would say there is a larger
issue here having to do with
U.S. policy on Russia. We
believe it is very important to
strengthen the capacity of
Ukraine in order to deter
Russian aggression elsewhere in
the world.
>> Exactly.
Ever able to get a reason why
that hold with uncommitted you
ever get a reason?
>> No ma'am, the only thing I
heard about it but this is again
second, third hand was that the
President was concerned about
corruption. That was all I ever
heard.
>> Were you ever able to provide
any additional information about
the reason for the hold?
>> No ma'am.
>> I think you and I feel that
the balance of my time to the
chairman.
>> I think you to the gentleman.
My college Artie asked
is it common to have hold on
military eight and I think you
said they are not unusual. Would
you agree that it would be very
unusual to place a hold on
military eight in order to
leverage a foreign country to
get them to investigate a
political opponent?
>> Yes.
>> I take it you would agree
that is completely
inappropriate?
>> That would be inconsistent
with the conduct of our foreign
policy in general.
>> It would also be wrong,
wouldn't it?
>> It is not what I would do.
>> It would be interesting if
any witness has testified that
is the case. I kneeled my time
to Mr. Jordan.
>> Think the gentleman Ft.
Snelling. First of all, I just
wanted to know where the
chairman started, he said that
Lassiter
Hale is one of our witnesses.
They are all your witnesses. You
called 17 witnesses. You
subpoenaed 15 of them. They are
all your witnesses. We didn't
get to subpoena anyone, we
didn't get to call anyone. You
give us an opportunity to get a
list of a couple weeks ago where
we made suggestions on who might
allow its to have but so we did
put three people of the 17 on
that list so they could provide
some sibilance of context and
framework for this entire thing.
Once again, misleading the folks
watching this hearing is not
helpful. Thank you both for
being your aunt for your service
to our country. Ambassador to
Pakistan, Lebanon,
envoy to the Middle East,
ambassador to Jordan, Bahrain,
Saudi Arabia, Europe into every
hotspot on the planet. Thank you
for there's hardship
assignments. We appreciate your
surface. Let me go first to
earlier today ambassador
Sondland said that he was denied
access to some of his records.
The State Department put out a
statement, like every current
State Department employee held
before Congress in this manner
retained at all times and
continues to retain full access
to State Department document
Terry records and State
Department email account which
he has been fully free to access
and review at will. That is an
accurate statement from the
State Department, isn't it
ambassador help us too
>> I had not seen it shortly
before entering this hearing
room and it sounds accurate.
>> Appreciate that. Ambassador,
you are aware of no connection
in exchange for any kind of
investigation, is that correct?
You are not aware of any
connection between the parts in
aid in exchange for some kind of
investigation being announced or
done by the Ukrainian is that
right? If you are not
aware of Secretary Pompeo having
any direct knowledge of the
connection between
investigations and security aid,
is that correct?
>> I am not aware of that.
>> You are not aware of any
nefarious motive to withhold a
to do Ukraine, is that correct?
>> Correct answer.
>> Executive Director that what
you knew was that President
Trump was skeptical of foreign
assistance generally.
Mr. Radcliffe highlighted that
and two, skeptical of the
corruption environment and
Ukraine. Is that accurate?
>> We had heard that, that was a
general impression that the
State Department corrected
>> The aid was eventually
released Ukraine them is that
correct as well?
>> I read that, guess.
>> It was just a 55 day or less
two-month pause in the actual
hold on the aid, is that right?
Ambassador?
>> I think so, desk correct.
>> Your knowledge at a top
principal
at the State Department, and
investigation into Biden,
Burisma, the 2016 election never
happened by the Ukrainian's, is
that correct?
>> I don't know that I have the
ability to answer that question
having taken this job in August
of 2018.
>> Since you have taken the job,
how about that?
>> To my knowledge, that is
correct.
>> Thank you, I kneeled back.
>>
Thank you chairman. Mr. Cooper,
too clean is the first line of
defense against Russia's
aggression and expansion into
Europe. Numerous witnesses
testified that Ukraine is in
fact vulnerable to
Russian influence and control.
Your dispositions are, you
testified that providing
security assistance is vital to
helping the Ukrainians be able
to defend themselves. What do
you mean by that sir?
>>
We have a long-standing policy
of helping Ukraine become a
resilient estate in order to be
able to defend itself. We want a
reliable and brilliant and
self-reliant security and
partner in Ukraine that can
stand up to Russian intimidation
and aggression.
>> You testified at the time of
Russia's 2014 attack that the
Ukrainian Armed Forces were
significantly less capable than
it is today, would you say
that Ukrainian forces were
outmatched by Russia's military
in important ways?
>> I did not so testified. I
think Ambassador Hill
.
>> Mr. Cooper, would you like to
come and question
>> I do believe that was my
deposition but could you repeat
the question briefly?
>> During the time of Russia's
2014 attack, the Ukrainian Armed
Forces were significantly less
capable than it was today. Would
you say the Ukrainian forces
were outmatched by Russia's
military in critical ways?
>> Absolutely.
>> Are the Ukrainian is now
completely self-sufficient in
your mind, essentially
in their ability to deter
Russian aggression?
>> No sir, they have a long way
to go.
>> Would you say that Ukrainian
Armed Forces are now completely
self-sufficient
, how much of an impact does the
U.S. need to have in terms of
that determined how critical is
the relationship between both
Ukraine and the U.S.
>> The Ukrainians are on the
right path to be able to provide
for their own security but they
will need U.S. and allied
support
for quite some time and they
need that support in the form of
tangible assistance as well as
political and diplomatic
support.
>> This question is to the both
of you, why was Russia's illegal
annexation of Crimea so
significant in your mind?
Madame Cooper?
>> Russia violated the
sovereignty of Ukraine's
territory. Russia illegally
annexed territory that belonged
to Ukraine. They also denied
Ukraine access to it naval fleet
at the time and to this day,
Russia is building a capability
on my designed to expand Russian
military power project far
beyond the immediate region.
>> In 2014 were there concerns
in Washington and European
capitals that Russia might not
stop in Ukraine?
>> I was not in my current
position in 2014 but it is my
understanding that there was
significant fear about where
Russian aggression would stop.
>> What about today, if at the
U.S. were to withdraw
its military support of Ukraine,
which would effectively happen?
>> It is my belief that if we
were to withdraw our support, it
would embolden Russia, it would
also validate Russia's violation
of international law.
>> Which country stands to
benefit the most, were to stand
to benefit the most?
>> Russia.
>> Ambassador Taylor testified
about the importance of the U.S.
upholding international system
and
it has underwritten peace in
Europe since the end of World
War II. It
critical aspect of defending the
system is that Russia cannot
change its borders by military
force. That is why there is a
strong bipartisan support for
providing Ukraine with security
assistance. That is why it is
incredibly destructive of the
president of the United States
to withhold its assistance as
part of a scheme to pressure
Ukraine into investigating
Edgemont conspiracy theory and
attack former Vice President
Biden. Mr. Chairman, I yield
back.
>> Documents up.
>> Thank you chairman, as an
Army reserve surgeon I can say I
served before two Republican and
two Democrat presidents myself.
I want to go to
Ms. Cooper if I can, page 3, I
heard the president 20 of the
office of management and budget
to pull funds because of his
concerns about corruption in
Ukraine. You come from the DOD
side, I served a year in Iraq
and it was important
, I think it is something the
Army always does as I have seen
that we don't want to deliver
aid or assistance if it is going
to some corrupt or being
delivered in some corrupt way.
In other words if we are going
to build a medical treatment
facility for the Iraqis, we want
to make sure not getting charged
10 times as much. We are
concerned about corruption in
general when we are delivering
funds. Is that correct?
>> Yes sir.
>> I think that that is a normal
thing to want to be concerned
about and we would do that in
Iraq and especially if we are
providing
payment for something. I just
want to go through a few things
with you because multiple
witnesses have testified that
the action to provide a javelins
to Ukraine by the administration
demonstrates strong support to
Ukraine. Ambassador the amount
of its in her deposition said
the president
's decision to provide legal
weapons to Ukraine that the
policy actually got stronger
over the last three years. She
also said in terms of lethal
assistance, we all felt it was
very significant what you that
this administration made the
decision to provide legal
weapons to Ukraine. Ambassador
Taylor said it was a substantial
improvement in that this
administration provided Javelin
antitank weapons. Very strong
political message it said of the
Americans are willing to provide
more than blank. Investor vocal
said that providing arms to
Ukraine has been extremely
couple. Mr. Volcker also stated
parties and blankets and all
that is fine but if you are
being attacked by mortar and
artillery antitank, you need to
be able to fight back. Secretary
George Kent stated that Javelin
are incredibly effective weapons
at stopping armed advanced and
the Russians are scared of them.
Special advisor
Catherine Croft stated javelins
help Ukraine defend themselves.
The decision to provide javelins
we believe is counter to Russian
interests. Do you dispute what
these witnesses have testified
to, including
Ambassador Marie Yovanovitch,
Taylor, Volcker and others?
>> I absolutely agree that
Javelin system is an important
capability and this was a very
important decision to support
Ukraine with this capability.
You are ready to
>> You are divided you are proud
of the decision
with javelins, correct?
>> That is correct sir.
>> One of the things on page 3
tonight, you were talking about
the weekend July 20 sixth and
said I was aware of the national
security community expressed
unanimous support for resuming
the funding and that the U.S.
national security interests,
that is correct, you said that?
>> That is correct sir.
>> I guess I take a little
question with resuming because
we don't want to resume as is,
would that be correct? Because
as is would not included
Javelin.
>> Sir, I am not sure I am
following.
>> The previous administration,
javelins were not provided. Even
though they could have been.
President Obama stopped the
javelins
. He could have delivered
javelins, let's put it that way.
>> I think I should clarify what
I meant by that statement.
Resuming was just referring to
the fact that the OMB placed a
hold on the assistant so we
weren't spending and I wanted to
resume the spending
so that we can maintain this
policy, maintain the strength.
>> Meeting the policy but I
guess what I am asking, there is
a difference and I think
Undersecretary Hale, I thought I
saw you nodding, the difference
being that as it is presumed in
this case, now it included
javelins, which Obama
administration denied is that
correct?
>> It is true that the Trump
administration approved the
release of defensive lethal
assistance to include Javelin
where as the previous
administration did not support
that policy.
>> Mr. Hill committee comment on
that? I think we can conclude
more than blanket and helping
Ukrainians into the lethal
defensive weapons are something
the Trump administration has
proved is a benefit to all of
us, thank you.
>> Thank you Mr. Chairman, thank
you both for being here this
evening. There is this mystery
surrounding the hold on the July
it appears. Back in May
Ms. Cooper, I believe you said
that it was conditioned
, which was certified in May
that the conditions had been met
and they include
progress on command and control
reform, commitment to pursue
defense industry reform them and
pass laws to enable government
to government procurement
correct?
>> Yes man, that is correct.
>> When you find out in July
they are concerned about
corruption, you are scratching
your head, right?
>> Yes ma'am, we did not
understand.
>> And do you know of any effort
that was undertaken then to
assess the corruption in Ukraine
in June, July, August?
>> Man, as I believe I said in
my deposition, the only specific
discussions that I am aware of
related to that series of
interagency meetings, the PCC,
policy coronation committee and
the deputy swallow and in those
meetings, participant did
discuss the degree to which
corruption was a concern and the
degree to which there was
progress. My recollection of
what the participants said in
these meetings was that there
was a very positive sense that
progress was being made.
>> You have these meetings,
progress is being made nothing
really changes from May until
September
that would then trigger the
release of money except
whistleblower coming forward.
>> I do not know what triggered
the release of the funding.
>> The fact that there was
reference made to do money being
withheld door other countries
was made by some of our
colleagues but in those
situations in countries like
Pakistan, Lebanon, they are
multiyear funding streams,
correct?
>> Ma'am, those accounts fall
outside of my purview so I
cannot answer that question.
>> I have been told that that is
indeed the case so there is not
the immediate angst or hit
financially that would
potentially accrue.
The difference as I see it in
Ukraine as compared to these
other countries is that
Ukrainians are engaged in a hot
war with Russia right now. It
seems that what is holding that
money was responsible
considering that they had made
, taken steps to meet all the
conditions that we had requested
of them and Congress had
appropriated the funds, is that
not the case?
>> Ma'am, I and my DOD
colleagues advocated strenuously
for the release of these funds
because of the national security
importance.
>> Ethically, the entire
interest of the Department of
Defense and State Department
were consistently
supportive of releasing the
funds. Everyone was mystified as
to why the funds had been
withheld and everyone is earning
amount trying to get an answer
and you are getting kind of
obtuse responses signing it with
the president because of
corruption. What we see is
Zelinski gets elected in April,
the expectation is
Vice President Pence is going to
attend the inauguration in
September and the president
pulls the carpet out from under
him in terms of him going and
then he proceeds in June or July
to withhold the funds. There is
a concerted effort by the
president of the United States
to act in a manner that
is not consistent with our
interests in wanting to protect
Ukraine and help them deal with
the Russian aggression at its
border. Would you agree with
that?
>> Ma'am, I have advocated for
the security assistance and I
have advocated for high-level
engagement
with the government of Ukraine
because I think both are in the
national security interests.
>> With that I kneeled back.
>> Mr. Stewart
>> Esther Chairman,
Undersecretary, assistant
secretary, thank you both for
being here. You are both
recognized as experts dedicated
public servants. I have to tell
you this is perhaps the most
complicated endeavor of the
entire world, nobody could do it
without people like you to
provide the backbone you do. I
don't need to repeat the same
questions add not him but I
think we have reached a point at
not see him sometime yesterday
or sometime ago. It is
repetitive. You will forgive me
for doing that. Mr. Cooper, I do
have some questions based on
some things you said previously
and I would just want for
clarification, there is a
question about these emails
that I think they climbed
withholding, described
withholding V-8 and they had
come from Capitol Hill or
someone on the foreign affairs
committee, is that true?
>> Sir, are you referring to my
statement today or something?
>> I believe this was a question
we had previous argue
aware of such an email question
mark
>> I am so weak I don't think I
have enough information to make
an assessment. Is it from a
particular page in my
deposition?
>> It is is reporting we have
heard there may have been
communications with someone on
the foreign affairs to MIDI on
the hill, is that not true quest
mark
>> There may have been
communications with me?
>> Yes, email with you.
>> Sir, I am not aware.
>> Thank you and for
clarification as well, someone
may have asked your
thumb the Ukrainian Embassy but
the withholding of aid, is that
true quest mark
>> Sir I testified earlier that
the communication from the
Ukrainian Embassy was to my
staff and my staff mentioned
this to me after my deposition.
The only specific communication
that I recollect with the
Ukrainians about this specific
issue was on September 5th
at a reception at Ukrainian
Embassy.
>> Just to bore down on that
little bit, was that a query
generally about the forthcoming
aid or was it specific regarding
them being aware that we had was
being withheld?
>> Sir, just to be clear, the
September 5th conversation that
I had was specific to the cold.
There
was an awareness of that and
there was a question of concern.
>> Okay, thank you. You know,
Ms. Cooper, to both of you
Undersecretary Hill as well, at
the end of the day, it really
does, and I've done this before,
it really does come down to
this. The transcript I am
holding up is the transcript of
the phone call between President
Volodymyr Zelensky and President
Trump that I would hope every
American would take the
opportunity to read. It is only
a few pages long.  Much more
information beyond that is maybe
helpful to inform but it really
comes down to those
conversations, those few
sentences. Mr. Hill, we are
going to
a series of questions and I have
your answers here so it won't
take long. You have answered
them generally anyway, you agree
to United States should evaluate
whether countries deserve our
aid, is that correct?
You say as well President Trump
has been skeptical of foreign
aid and some of the money we
have given is that there is will
put Mark
>> I think so.
>> I think that has been fairly
consistent. He has done that
since before he was elected.
Others in the process of
testified Ukraine has a long
history of corruption, that is
not going to surprise anyone of
us. Do you think it was right
that President Trump would test,
I think is the word he was to
previously, that he would test
President Volodymyr Zelensky
player to providing the security
assistance?
>>
President Volodymyr Zelensky was
new. I had met him in February,
I was impressed by him but I
think it was understandable for
the administration  to
them as the new president was
coming to office, to understand
better what that president's
policies would be an attitude
toward the native states.
>> Undersecretary, I think that
is key. We have added referred
to as the department of defense
completed their report, this was
a person elected and we knew
nothing about him. He didn't
have a history of government and
the Ukraine, he was like
president Trump, he did not come
from a public background that we
would have much information on
him. It was presented to testing
and to see if he was furious
about Ukraine. At some point, I
am going to conclude. I believe
it was about Labor Day, the
secretary was able to imitate
the president on security
assistance about the same time
you had some others secretary or
vice president pants and ran to
and Bolton as well as well as
the eight is released, is that
your understanding?
>> I was never informed as to
why the assistance was released.
I did read about it.
>> Those events did happen and
it seems like they were the
reason the gate was released. I
yelled back.
>> Mr. Quigley.
>> Thank you both for being
here, thank you for your
favorites. You have both been
asked about the importance of
the military assistance as it
affects Ukrainian sovereignty
and
its importance because of
potential greater ambitions by
the Russians. Let me try to put
it in context and please get
your reaction from both of you
from someone who had been there
before, a renowned international
policy expert on such things
, his quote seems to strike home
today. He wrote "Russia can
either be an empire or a
democracy. It cannot be both.
Without Ukraine, Russia ceases
to be an empire but with Ukraine
and in subordinated, Russia
automatically becomes an empire.
" Your thoughts on how this puts
this into context today please.
>> Sir, I think that is a very
powerful and accurate quote.
>> I would agree.
>>
Ms. Cooper, you talked about
emails that were drawn to your
attention
that was sent to your staff, is
that correct?
>> The emails I discussed this
evening emails sent to my staff,
that is correct.
>> Okay, I think first of all it
is important to point this out
that it is not something you
were aware of that points to a
larger issue the Defense
Department and the State
Department have
refused to comply with a duly
issued subpoena to provide this
committee with documents that
would further shed light on
precisely what the Ukrainians
knew about the hold. This isn't
something you are aware of but
there is untold information out
there being blocked that would
draw greater light and help us
understand. Is there anything
else out there that you are
aware of
for the possibilities that are
out there with the Department of
Defense or the State Department
which could help us shed light
on what the Ukrainians knew and
when they know it?
>> Sir, I have shared with the
committee all that I recollect
the I have not done an
exhaustive investigation. I
really can't speculate on what
else might be available by
combing through all of the
Defense Department records,
which are substantial.
>> Did the State Department or
Department of Defense ask you
for your information or did they
coordinate with you to get
information you had?
>>
Sir, I was told not to destroy
anything and our I.T. personnel
have been collecting documents
is my understanding, so that
occurs without the individual
having to --
>> They were collecting it and
passing it on to the state or
DOD, is that correct? You said
the department was collecting
it, they went passing that on to
you, they were passing it on to
the State Department?
>>
This is what they reported to
me. I have not seen the
documents that have been
collected. I only know those
documents that I have produced
or my staff has brought to my
attention that I have received.
I do not know what has happened
with the documents that have
been
collected.
>> The same general question, do
you Sir?
>> I requested and was granted
access to documents that either
originated or had been sent to
me that were relevant to the
pertinent matters of this
investigation during a finite
time., I don't have information
about what else is going on in
terms of other documents that I
did not produce or I did not
perceive. There was a move to
gather them and I understood
generally that they had been
gathered, that is the extent of
my knowledge.
>> Did they pass them on to you
or pass them on to
the demonstration somehow?
>> The only documents I
received, sir, where does within
the parameters I described. What
requested and given what were
the documents either I produced
were were sent to me relevant to
the matters we are discussing
today.
>> Thank you, I yield back to
the chairman.
>> Ms. Stefanik.
>> Thank you to both our
witnesses for your services
today. Miss Cooper Kupp I want
to start with you. You spoke
eloquently of the threat of
Russia
when it illegally annexed
Crimea, how that is a threat not
only to Ukraine but it is also a
threat
to Europe and the United States,
it is a national security
challenge. I sit on the House
armed services committee, we
know that the most important
support for Ukraine in terms of
legal defense of a defense the
forms of javelins, would you
agree with that?
>> Yes ma'am.
>> Went administration where
those javelins made available to
Ukraine postmark
>> This administration.
>> Not of the Obama
administration. Both of you,
have you ever spoken with the
president about Ukraine?
>> Know, I have not.
>>
No man.
>> Undersecretary Hill, you
testified that you have no
direct knowledge of any
nefarious motivations to
withhold aid to Ukraine,
correct?
>> Correct.
>> To your knowledge you
testified that there were no
strings attached to the aid,
correct? That is page 184 of
your deposition.
>> No such knowledge.
>> More specifically, you
testified you had no knowledge
of Ukraine aid being held up
before investigation, is that
correct? A
>> Correct.
>> During the temporary hold of
security assistance, this is
untold basso detailers in the
cable, you had never heard the
words Burisma or Biden, correct?
>>
In the context of what we are
discussing, correct.
>> You testified that on page
96. Ultimately as we know, the
aide was released to Ukraine
democrats question mark
>> Yes, I read that.
>> Let's talk broadly about the
contacts. You justify it is not
just Ukraine but there were
other countries whose security
assistance was on hold. The aid
package to Lebanon was also
being held in the same fashion,
correct?
>> Correct.
>> Foreign aid was withheld from
northern tribal countries of
South America come to
correct? You also testified that
when you served as ambassador to
Pakistan, security assistance
was also withheld for their
failure to conform to our
concerns regarding terrorists
and other issues on the Afghan
Pakistan border.
>>
Correct.
>> Basically, let's broadly talk
about the context of all of
these holds on it. When we talk
about it, I always think about
these are hard earned to
taxpayer dollars, would you
agree with that?
>> Absolutely.
>>
Isn't it correct that this
administration, the Trump
administration has been
collecting a foreign assistance
review to reestablish forms that
kind of the assistant as we
provide aid overseas.
>> That is correct.
>> You testified that this
preview had been going on for
quite a while if the
administration didn't want to
take a business
as usual approach. A feeling
once a country has received a
certain assistance package, it
is something that continues
forever and you continued "the
program had to be evaluated that
they were actually were the
beneficiaries of our assistance,
that our program it made sense,
that we avoid nationbuilding
strategies and that they provide
assistance to countries that in
terms of our policy to our
adversaries" and you testified
you only welcome the assistance
review.
>> Correct.
>> Again, just
to get this on record and for
the millions of Americans
viewing, security assistance was
in fact released to Ukraine, I
know I have asked of this but
this is an important point.
>> Correct.
>> Think you, I yield back.
>> Mr. small well.
>> Ms. Cooper, your testimony
today destroys two of the
pillars of the president's
defense and one justification
for his conduct.
The first pillar, no harm no
foul. That Ukraine's didn't know
the hold was in place so didn't
really hurt him. Second pillar,
this President was a real
champion of anticorruption. He
cared about corruption in
Ukraine. I am going to go
through your new testimony today
. It is your testimony now that
after an employee came forward
to, you believe you had some
evidence that Ukrainians first
inquired about security
assistance
with someone in your office on
July 25 of this year, is that
right?
>> That is correct.
>> July 25 is also the day that
President Trump officially
talked to President Volodymyr
Zelensky
where investigation with the
Bidens was brought up, is that
right?
>> I only know what has been
reported publicly on this.
>> That was reported, is that
right?
>> That is correct.
>> Second, this President, as a
champion of anticorruption, your
testimony today is that on May
23rd certified as far as is
related to your duties, Ukraine
had met the corruption concerns
for the aide to be released is
that right?
>>
The Defense Department
certified.
>> After that date,
inexplicably, the president of
the United States put a hold on
security
assistance, is that right?
>> That is what I heard in July,
yes.
>> This anticorruption
president, who cares so much
about working out corruption in
Ukraine, did he ever called you
after he put the whole to two
sites Ms. Cooper, what is going
on in Ukraine?
>> Know as Sir.
>> Ambassador Hill, did he ever
called you to ask for an update
on Ukraine corruption question
marks
>> No sir.
>> Did you ever call your boss
secretary Pompeo postmark
>> I don't know.
>> Ms. Cooper, did he ever call
the many boxes that you had that
the Department of Defense
secretary directing secretaries
postmark
>> I don't know sir
>> Now for the justification.
The justification is that that
the Obama administration had
provided blankets so Ukrainians
should be grateful, even after
being shaken down that
the Trump administration
provided more. The truth, Ms.
Cooper, is that under the Obama
administration and of the
European joint initiative, $175
million were provided from a
U.S. taxpayer dollars to the
Ukrainians, is that right?
>> Sir, I don't have that
figure. The figure we typically
use is to say we provided $1.6
billion to date. But I don't
have to break down in front of
me.
>> The Obama administration also
trained five military battalions
of the Ukrainians, is that
correct?
>> I don't have the figures in
front of me but just for the
training program began in the
Obama administration and we have
been training.
>> Under the Obama
administration, founded
Ukrainian security assistance
initiative provided the
Ukrainians were armored Humvees,
technical drones, night vision
devices, armored fests and
medical equipment, is that
correct?
>> Those were pieces of
equipment that were provided in
the Obama administration to my
recollection.
>> You would agree that is a lot
more than blankets, right?
>>
Yes sir. A
>> Ambassador Hill, the aide
that was withheld to Lebanon and
Pakistan, those were for
legitimate foreign policy
objectives, is that right?
>> I would say that is true. The
assistance to Pakistan, I had
not heard an explanation for our
current holes on the Lebanese
program.
>> And you would agree that
withholding aid to investigate a
political opponent is not a
legitimate foreign policy
objective, is that correct?
>> Correct.
>> I guess we can agree that
even Bernie made off made
charitable contributions but it
doesn't make him a good guy. Ms.
Cooper
, your testimony today
demonstrates the power of coming
forward in defining lawless
orders from the president.
Because you came forward and
testified
, we learned this new
information, which Detroit the
central defense of the
Republicans put forth. Because
Ambassador Taylor came forward,
one of his employees learned the
defense from the Republicans
that all we had was hearsay
evidence and Mr. Holmes said
actually
, I heard the president of the
United States tell Ambassador
Sondland where are we with the
investigations. Door correct has
aided this investigation despite
the president continued
obstruction. I yield back.
>> Mr. hurt.
>> Thank you chairman.
Ambassador hail
, you are in essence of the
number three guy at the State
Department, is that correct?
>> The correct.
>> Represent in roughly 70,000
folks?
>> I represented them on one of
them, yes.
>>
You were part of a pretty
fantastic workforce that I have
been proud to be able to serve
alongside. We share time
together and Pakistan. So,
thanks him. I know they
oftentimes don't get the pats on
the back or the accolades of for
what they do for our national
security but there are some of
us that do recognize that and
appreciate that.
Did anybody raise issues to you,
ambassador hail, about
investigations of the Bidens or
Burisma?
>> No sir.
>> Thank you. Ms. Cooper, you
have a great to start. I don't
think my staff would've read my
hundred 15 page deposition and
gave me feedback so I give them,
give them gold stars.
You confirmed with my colleague
in California that you certified
on 23 May that the Ukraine and,
their defense industry and the
department of defense
, you know, had passed the
corruption test, is that
correct?
>> Sir, I think the wording was
more along the lines of progress
has been made or sufficient
progress has been made. It
didn't
reference any anticorruption
test per se.
>> Did this change or was a
reevaluation with the new
president coming on to
President Volodymyr Zelensky was
inoculated in office two days
before that date, did not have
an impact on how he was going to
continue some of those  pieces,
was that taken into account in
this review?
>> Not prior to May 23rd, no
sir.
>> So the review was basically
done on the previous, the
efforts done by the previous
administration.
>> Yes sir, although it is
important to note that the
review related most specifically
to the Ministry of Defense.
>> There were ultimately changes
under the
Volodymyr Zelensky regime, is
that correct?
>> Yes sir, there is a new
minister of defense.
>> Can you explain, I know
foreign military financing if
the state court, can you point
difference between  that funding
and how Ukrainians get legal
aid?
>> I am sorry, could you repeat
the last part of that?
>> Actually get lethally, easily
flayed covered under one of
these two buckets?
>> There are three separate
pieces to our overall ability to
provide equipment to the
Ukrainian Armed Forces. The
first is the foreign military
finance system, which is a State
Department authority and
countries around the world
have this authority. That
authority it was the for some of
the training
, there is also the Ukrainian
security assistance initiative,
that is DOD authority unlike the
state authority, the DOD
authority is only one year
authority. Third, there is
opportunity for defense sales.
That is something that we are
working with the Ukrainians on
now so that they can actually
purchase U.S. equipment. The
javelin specifically was
provided under
FMF initially and now Ukrainians
are interested in the purchase
of Devlin's.
>> There wasn't a hold put on
parts and of equipment, correct?
>> That is my cannot do my
understanding.
>> Can I ask you a non-inquiry
question? A non-impeachment
inquiry question.
>> Sir, my time is yours.
>> What can we be doing to help
Ukrainians to defend against
Russian electronic warfare. What
more can we be doing to help
Ukrainians defend against
electronic warfare by the
Russians.
>> What I can say in an open
hearing is that there actually
gets some electronic warfare
detection equipment that is
included in the USA I packages
so there is a capability that we
are already working to provide
to them. I think this specific
topic is more suitable for a
closed door session.
>> Think you to your service to
your country and chairman, I
yield back.
>>
Mr. Castro.
>> Thank you terminate thank you
all for your to somebody today.
I want to make an important
distinction here because a few
of my colleagues have rattled
off countries where we have
actually held up it. There is a
big decision between holding up
aid for a legitimate policy
reason, foreign policy reason of
holding up aid because it is
part of a shakedown
because it is in the service of
a president who asks for a
political favor of a country to
go investigate a political
rival. I think that is important
for us to note. I wanted to ask
you
, Ms. Cooper, you said that the
money was cleared to go by the
DOD on May 23rd, is that right?
>> That is correct.
>> And it didn't get released
until September 11th?
>> I should just clarify, the
second half of the Ukraine
security assistance initiative
was notified
to Congress on May 23rd and
there was a waiting period for
congressional approval and then
after that point so in May to
June
, roughly, it was available.
>> Perhaps 90 days or so, 95
days, something like that.
>> Yes, I don't have a calendar
in front of me, that is
>> You both testified that the
hold on security assistance
present in the national security
interest of the date and that
the hold might embolden Russia.
We have heard the same from
numerous other witnesses that
have come before us. This was
not the only issue I went to the
hold, right? We understand
people within United States
government
had significant concerns about
the legality of the hold as it
relates to the impoundment
control act. This is because the
money had been authorized by
Congress and signed into law by
President. Ms. Cooper, at the
July meetings, were there any
discussions about whether the
hold could be implement it in a
legal fashion?
>> So in the July 26 meeting, my
leadership raised the question
of how the presidents guidance
would be implemented and offered
that perhaps a reprogramming
action would be the way to do
this but more research would
need to be done. After that
discussion we had a lower level
discussion at my level
on the 31st of July.
>> Let me ask you about that
July 31st meeting. They say your
colleagues
at the VOD at the July 31st
interagency meeting, did you
share your understanding of
legal mechanisms were available
at that time?
>> Yes sir. Is
>> What were they?
>> I expressed it was my
understanding there were two
ways that we would be able to
limit presidential guidance to
stop obligating the Ukraine
security assistance initiative
and the first option would be
for the president to do a
rescission. The second is a
reprogramming action
that the Department of Defense
would do.
>> Both of those would require
congressional notice. There
would be an extra step the
president would have to take to
notify Congress. As far as you
know, was there ever any notice
that was sent out to Congress?
>> I did express that I believed
it would require notice to
Congress and that there was no
such notice to my knowledge or
preparation of such a notice to
my knowledge.
>> As far as you know, there was
no official rescission or
reprogramming of that money?
>> No sir, not to my knowledge.
>> Instead,
they devised an alternative
solution including footnotes to
implement the hold and there
became a time in August when the
Department of Defense no longer
supported the use of footnotes
because of concerns they might
not be sufficient time for DOD
to obligate funds before the end
of the fiscal year in violation
of the impoundment control act.
Despite DOD concerns in mid
August about the impoundment
control act and OMB footnotes,
the hold nevertheless continued
through September 11th even
after, now as an aside, this is
even after the whistleblower had
come forward. Is that right?
>> It is correct of the hold was
released on September 11th,
guess. Is
>> I know I and many of us here
share DOD is concerned about the
legality of the Lord. I want to
thank you Ms. Cooper for voicing
DOD's concerns to the White
House in pursuing the national
security interests of the United
States. Yield back.
>> Chairman. Ms. Cooper, based
on the new email you mentioned
in your opening and subsequent
declarations by some of my
Democratic colleagues
, those emails were evidence
Ukrainians were aware as a
military hold on July 25th.
There is now reporting out there
saying that Pentagon official
reveals Ukrainians ask about
stone security and.
It is being widely reported that
Ukraine asked about the hold on
military
aid on July 25th. That is not
what I heard from you. Is that
correct?
>> Sir, my exact words were that
one email said that the
Ukrainian Embassy
and the House foreign affairs
committee are asking about
security assistance. Assistance.
And then the second email was
the knows about the FMF
situation to an extent and so
does the Ukrainian Embassy,
those are the exact words.
>> What to security assistance
and FMF situation in these
emails mean?
>> I don't want to speculate on
what it means.
>> They don't necessarily mean
holes, correct?
>> Not necessarily.
>> Is it true that around the
same time, OMB put a hold on 15
State Department and USAID
accounts including FMF?
>> I don't know that specific
detail.
>> You can't say one way or
another whether the increase in
these emails were about the hold
, is that fair?
>> I cannot say for certain.
>> You can't say one way or
another whether the Ukrainians
knew about the world before
August the 28th, 2010 when it
was reported in politico,
correct?
>> Sir, I can just tell you that
the recollection of my staff
that they likely knew but no, I
do not have a certain data point
to offer you.
>> It is not unusual, is it Ms.
Cooper for foreign countries to
inquire about foreign aid they
are expecting from the United
States, is it?
>> Sir, in my experience with
the Ukrainians, they typically
would call about the specific
things, not just generally
checking in on their assistance
package.
>> Are you aware that president
Volodymyr Zelensky on  October
10th in response to questions
from more than 300 reporters
over the course of the afternoon
stated that
he was not aware and had no
knowledge of a hold on security
assistance during the time of
the July 25th phone call with
President Trump?
>> I believe I saw that media
reporting, guess.
>> Yield back.
>> Mr. Hatch.
>> Thank you both for being here
this evening. Ambassador Hill
. Last week at the country
watched as President Trump
attacked and intimidated
your colleague. He attempted to
intimidate your colleague,
Ambassador Marie Yovanovitch who
is a witness to this proceeding.
Subsequently, Secretary Pompeo
declined to condemn that attack.
Bluntly put, I think Secretary
Pompeo's silence
is nothing less than a betrayal
of the men and women whom he
swore an oath to lead. It is a
betrayal that has long-term
consequences to
attracting and retaining
workforce, to their morale, to
their effectiveness and to their
overall strength. So, Ambassador
Hill,
, I want to give you an
opportunity to now do what
Secretary Pompeo did not do.
Either in March of 2019 when the
vicious smear campaign got
kicked into high gear and you
sir rightfully pressed for a
strong statement in support of
her or last week, when the
president and his son attacked
her again.
I am offering you the
opportunity to reaffirm to this
committee and the millions of
Americans hopefully who are
watching that Marie Yovanovitch
is a dedicated and courageous
patriot.
And that she served with grace
and dignity, even in the face of
that orchestrated and
unsubstantiated smear attack
against her. Ambassador Hale, I
am giving you the opportunity to
demonstrate leadership. I am
giving you the opportunity to
send a clear and resounding
message to the men and women who
serve in dangerous foreign posts
throughout the globe that what
happened to Marie Yovanovitch
was wrong. Ambassador Hale? The
floor is yours.
>> Thank you Congressman. I
endorse entirely your
description of Ambassador Marie
Yovanovitch.  I only met her
when I took this job but I
understood we had an exceptional
officer doing exceptional work
at a very critical Embassy and
the doing my visits to Jeff, I
was very impressed with what she
was doing there to the extent I
would ask her if she would say.
I support and believe in the
institution and to the people of
the State Department, I am one
of them and have been for 35
years. All of us are committed
to America's national security
and we are the best group of
diplomats anywhere in the world.
That support extends to all
state officers who testified
before this. I would like to
read a letter that the
undersecretary for management
wrote on November 18 to the
ranking member of the Senate
foreign relations committee in
response to a communication from
him.
A number of department employees
have testified before the House
of Representatives that during
his inquiry regarding Ukraine.
No employee has faced any
adverse action by the department
for testimony before Congress on
this matter. The department will
not discipline any department
employee for appearing before
Congress in response to a
subpoena. Is also proactively
established a program to provide
financial assistance
and perspectives private counsel
legal fees incurred by
department employees. There was
additional information but that
is the essence of the message.
>> Therefore, are you saying
Marie Yovanovitch
is a dedicated and courageous
patriot?
>> I endorse what you say
exactly.
>> And she served with grace and
dignity
in the face of a smear campaign?
>> Yes she did pick
>> And that what happened to her
was
>> I believe she should have
been able to stay at post and
continue to do the outstanding
post, work she was doing.
>> Thank you sir. Thank you for
clarifying the record. I wasn't
sure where it was that she could
go to set the record
straight if it wasn't you was
served, or where she could go to
get her good name and reputation
back if it wasn't you sir.
Indeed, I want to encourage you
in the strongest terms possible.
Stand your ground. America's
security into strength and
prosperity is predicated in no
small part on the
professionalism of our foreign
services core and they need to
to know that you, as the
highest-ranking professional
diplomat in the entire State
Department, have their back sir.
Thank you for having
Ambassador Marie Yovanovitch's
back this evening. With that, I
yield back .
>> Mr. Jordan.
>> Thank you Mr. Chairman. Ms.
Cooper, the, who
, why did the office of
management and budget put a hold
on the funds?
>> Sir, the only information
that I received
was from the office of
management and budget that they
were operating at the direction
of the president and
they reported that he had
concerns about corruption. That
is all that I knew.
>> You put in your testimony the
president had director the
office of management and budget
to hold the funds because of his
concerns over corruption in the
Ukraine, very legitimate reason,
do you agree?
>> That is the statement that
the President reportedly made
as reported to me by the office
of management and budget.
>> You said in your testimony
that based on recommendations
from community advisors that the
Department of Defense, in
coordination with
vitamin estate, certified in May
in 2019 that Ukraine had taken
steps necessary and you
certified as a release of the
dollars, is that accurate?
>> That is correct sir.
>> But there was, there was a
small change in Ukraine in the
spring of 2019, wasn't there?
>> Yes sir.
>> Can you elaborate on what
that change was?
>> The government
,  president of Volodymyr
Zelensky was elected to
government.
>> You got a brand-new Geico
again.  He had just been sworn
in the date you approved of the
dollars. May 23rd
? I think he was sworn in a
couple days before but there is
a sort of a change in
circumstances that seem to me
would warrant a second look.
That is exactly what played out.
For a short time. Less than two
months, 55 days, our government
evaluated the new situation,
pretty radical change, you got a
new government. In fact, the
previous one, we have heard all
kinds of things from the
Democrats about the prosecutor
general and how that he was. It
took a while for that to happen,
new president is is one in a few
months later the new Congress
comes in, takes them and while
, not until September. September
5th that they get rid of this
prosecutor and just a few days
later, the aide actually gets
released. But the Democrats got
all kinds of other things they
want to talk about but the way
this played out seems to me it
is as logical as you can do it
and particularly when you put it
in the broader framework of
where this President is on
concern about foreign aid, his
deep-rooted concern in the
corruption issue in Ukraine, the
experience he had with
high-ranking Ukrainian officials
criticizing him and supporting
secretary Clinton in the 2016
election.
Through that together, sort of
shows why it played out the way
it did. With that I yield back.